ASIAN DEVELOPMENT BANK
ANNUAL REPORT FOR 1967President's Letter of Transmittal
Historical Background

Part |

Part Il

Part Il

Part IV
Part V
Part VI

Part Vil
Appendices

Inaugural Meéting
Membership Developments

Administrative and
Organizational Arrangements

Finances of the Bank
Review of Activities

Relations with Other
International Organizations

Mobilization of Special Funds

Page

a ao f&

1é

22
26
29ASIAN DEVELOPMENT BANK
Manila

My dear Mr. Chairman:

| enclose the Annual Report of the Asian Development Bank for

1967 which the Board of Directors, acting pursuant to Section 2 of

j
|
|
Article 39 of the Articles of Agreement of the Bank, and in accord- _
ance with Section !3 of the By-Laws, has requested me to submit to

the Board of Governors.

Sincerely yours,

1
fize,}

Takeshi WatanabePresident

Honourable Eduardo Z. Romualdez
Chairman

Board of Governors

Asian Development Bank

26 February, 1968

 

woRRMA me Ame em FEE ELE

ie a ek So

ABER

eee MaRS IT
eR SER RE EES

 

A model of the proposed headquarters for the Bank which is being erected by the Philippine
Government on Roxas Boulevard, Greater Manila (see Page 10).

Re?*" HE First Ministerial Conference on Asian
= Economic Cooperation held under the
auspices of the Economic Commission for
Asia and the Far East (ECAFE] in Manila in
December 1963, passed a resolution endorsing a proposal to establish a Regional Development Bank for Asia. The ECAFE, in turn,
set up a Working Group of experts to report
on this resolution and the report submitted
by the Group was circulated to governments
of member countries of the ECAFE.

At its twenty-first session in Wellington in
March 1965, the ECAFE set up a Consultative Committee which, in the course of the
year, visited various member countries of the
ECAFE and other interested nations in order
to elicit their respective views on the establishment of the Bank. The Committee also pre
- pared a draft of an Agreement Establishing
the Asian Development Bank* which, after review by a meeting of officials representing
potential participants in the Bank, was
adopted at. the ECAFE's Second Ministerial
Conference on Asian Economic Cooperation
held in Manila in November/December 1965.

After the adoption of the text, the Agreement was signed in Manila at a Conference
of Plenipotentiaries of thirty-one countries

“Referred to hereinatter as “the Agreement,”

that followed immediately after the Ministerial Conterence and was left open for further signatures in Bangkok until 31 January
1966, :

The Agreement entered into force on 22
August 1966 with the ratification or acceptance by fifteen signatories (which included
ten regional countries in accordance with the
terms of the Agreement} whose initial subscriptions in the aggregate comprised "not
less than sixty-five (65) per cent of the authorized capital stock of the Bank'’.

The Secretary-General of the United Nations acted as the Depository for the Agree
ment and Trustee for the receipt of payments of the first instalment of subscriptions _

towards share capital.

At the Manila conferences in 1965, a Committee on Preparatory Arrangements for the
Establishment of the Asian Development
Bank was formed and entrusted with the task
of undertaking the necessary initial steps for

action by the Board of Governors at its In- 
augural Meeting. The Preparatory Committee functioned until the Inaugural Meeting of
the Board of Governors in Tokyo in November 1966.PART ONE

 

''N accordance with Article 65 of the
Agreement Establishing the Asian Development Bank, U Nyun, Executive Secretary of
the ECAFE, convened the Inaugural Meeting
of the Board of Governors of the Asian Development Bank in Tokyo, Japan, on 24-26
November 1966.

Mr. Takeo Fukuda, Minister of Finance,
Government of Japan, was elected Chairman of the Inaugural Meeting. Mr. N. M.
Uguaili and Mr. Tan Siew Sin, Governors for
Pakistan and Malaysia respectively, were
elected Vice-Chairmen. Mr. D. C. Gunesekera, the Project Manager in charge of the
Preparatory Arrangements for the Establishment of the Bank, was appointed Secretary
of the Inaugural Meeting.

Additions +0 Membership and Capital

At the Inaugural Meeting, the Board of
Governors considered the application of Indonesia for membership in the Bank and
adopted a resolution relating to the terms
and conditions of its membership. Having
complied with all the terms, Indonesia became the thirty-first rrember of the Bank on
24 November 1966 and participated in the
proceedings of the Inaugural Meeting.

The Board of Governors also approved of

a. increases in subscription to share capital of Afghanistan to $4.78 million,
of Cambodia to $3.50 million, of Republic of Vietnam to $12.00 million,
and of Singapore to $5.00 million; and

b. an increase in total authorized capital
from $1,000 million to $1,100 million.

The Board of Governors also considered
the application of Switzerland for membership in the Bank. A Resolution was adopted
setting out the terrns of membership and
specifying, as suggested by Switzerland, 31
December 1967 as the date for completion
of membership formalities.

Election of President and Directors

Mr. Takeshi Watanabe was unanimously
elected President of the Bank at the Inaugural Meeting.

In conformity with Rules for Election of
Directors adopted at the Inaugural Meeting,
the following ten directors —- seven representing regional member countries and three
representing non-regional members —- were
elected on 25 November 1964: Helmut Abramowski, Cornelio Balmaceda, Byung Kyu
Chun, Masaru Fukuda, J. M. Garland, 8.
Kharmawan, Ng Kam Poh, P. V. R. Rao, W.
K. Wardroper, and Bernard Zagorin. (Voting
groups are listed in the Appendices).

Resolutions of the Board of Governors

The various Resolutions adopted at the Inaugural Meeting together with the action taken thereon are given in the Appendices.

The Summary of Proceedings of the Inaugural Meeting of the Board of Governors has
been issued separately.

PART TWO

ep

MEMBERSHY

  

 

Switzerland

tt

FL AVING complied with the terms of Resolution No. || adopted by the Board of Governors at the Inaugural Meeting, Switzerland
became on 31 December 1967 the thirtysecond member, and the thirteenth non-regional member, with a subscription of $5 million to the capital stock of the Bank.

The distribution of voting power among
the Governors of the Bank as a sequel to
the admission of Switzerland as a member is
given with the Statement of Subscriptions in
the Appendices.~*~

Hong Kong

In the course of the year, the Government

of Hong Kong indicated an interest in join-:

ing the Bank and took under consideration
the various factors that would be involved
in membership.

Cambodia

On 18 September 1967, the Bank received
a letter from the Royal Government of Cambodia conveying Cambodia's decision to
withdraw from membership in the Bank, in
accordance with paragraph | of Article 41
of the Agreement.

In its reply to the Royal Government of
Cambodia on 18 September 1967, the Bank
drew attention to the provision under Article
41(2} of the Agreement which provides for a

- notice period of af least six months for with
drawal to become effective.

PART THREE

 

Opening of the Bank

* HE Bank was formally opened for business
* on 19 December 1966 at its temporary
premises in Metropolitan Building, Ayala
Avenue, Makati, in the Greater Manile area.
The occasion was honoured by the participation of President Ferdinand E. Marcos of the
Republic of the Philippines and Mrs. imelda
Romualdez Marcos.

Organizational Structure

The organizational structure of the Bank
comprises a Board of Governors, a Boerd of
Directors, a President, one or more Vice Pres
idents and such other officers and staff as
raay be considered necessary.

Board of Governors

Each member of the Bank appoints one
Governor and one Alternate Governor. The
list of Governors and Alternates together
with the changes in office, as notified to the
Bank, appears in the Appendices.

Board of Directors

The term of office of the Directors elected
at the Inaugural Meeting commenced on 10
December 1966 and continues until the next
election at the Second Annual Meeting. The
composition of the Board of Directors at the
end of 1967 is given in the Appendices.
Of the ten Directors elected at the Inaugural Meeting, nine continued to hold office
through 1967; Dr. Ng Kam Poh {representing
Malaysia, New Zealand, Singapore, Thailand
and Western Samoa} resigned on 30 April
1987 and, in his place, Mr. Lim Taik Choon
was elected Director. During 1967 there was
a number of changes in respect of Alternate
Directors. These changes are listed in the Appendices.
The Board of Directors met on four days
during 1966 and on 36 days (including five
informal sessions} during 1967, an average
of 3 meetings a month.
The deliberations of the Board, in the first
half of the year, were inevitably concerned
mainly with organizational aspects. Decisions
were taken, infer alia, on
Rules of Procedure of the Board of
Directors

Organization of the Bank

Annual and Other Leave for the Staff
Members of the Bank and Official
Holidays of the Bank

Dependency Allowance and Education
Grants

Statf Retirement Plan: Basic Policy Issues

Medical and Health Insurance SchemesWorkmen's Compensation, Personal
Accident, Group Life Insurance
Schemes

Staff Travel and Settlement

Bank Seal and Flag

Separation Policy

Travel Document

Staff Regulations

Administrative Budgets

The Board, in the second half of the year,

concentrated more on the operational and
financial aspects of the Bank. Among subjects discussed by the Board in this sphere,
either on a tentative or conclusive basis,
were:

Asian Agricultural Survey

Guidelines for Investment of Bank Funds
Not Currently Needed in Operations

Guidelines on Ordinary Operations

Technical Assistance Contribution from
United States

Indonesia's Technical Assistance Request

Establishment of Account Relationship
with Bank for International Settlements

Relations with International Organizations

Guidelines for Procurement under Bank
Loans

Uses of Consultants by the Bank and Its
Borrowers

Prerequisites to Marketing of Bank
Bonds

Draft Loan Requlations and Form of Loan
Agreement and Guarantee Agreement

Interim Arrangements for Cooperative
Action with the Food and Agriculture
Organization

Technical Assistance Contributions

The Board of Directors, acting under the

provisions of Articles 31 (iii) and 39(2) and
Section 15 of the By-Laws, selected Messrs.
Haskins & Sells, a well-known United States
firm of independent auditors, as outside auditors of the Bank for a period of five years.
After reviewing over |,700 entries submitted by competitors from among member
countries, the Board adopted an emblem for

the Bank, a facsimile of which is published on
the cover page of this Report.! The same
‘motif’ has been adopted in the seal and in
the flag of the Bank.

President

The President undertook during the course
of 1967 a series of visits to member countries ‘to gain a more comprehensive understanding of the prevailing economic climate
in each country...to provide an ear for
each nation's views on the Bank and to secure
competent personnel for the Bank''.2 Inclusive of journeys to Australia, New Zealand
and Western Samoa in the latter part of
1966, the President visited eighteen regional
members and thirteen non-regional members
{including Switzerland) by the end of 1967.
He met leaders of government and of the
business and financial community, reported
on the progress in the Bank's organizational
structure, and explained his general views on
the potential role of the Bank. At the same
time, the President was able to secure useful
information on the prevailing economic situation and the development programs and
problems of developing member countries.

These exchanges of views with leaders of
the developing nations have proved extremely helpful. Alll displayed a keen awareness of
the sacrifices and hardships involved in the
process of economic development and of the
importance of self-help. During these rounds
of discussions, frequent references were
made to the growing emphasis on agricultural development and there was an appreciation that industrialization and agricultural development should no longer be regarded as
two distinct alternatives for developing nations but as mutually consistent and complementary in any well-ordered plan for economic progress.

In his visits to the non-regional countries,
1 The winning entry wos submitted by Mr. Kuo Chiu-Tseng

of the Republic of China, who received an award of $1,000.
2 From President Watanabe’s speech at Inaugural Meeting.the President was impressed by the gestures
of goodwill and support for the Bank as
well as the high expectations that were
held out by leaders within Government
and in business. The Bank was generally
considered as being potentially ‘capable
of making a substantial impact on development in the region, both because of
its predominantly Asian composition and its
proximity to the field of action. These visits
were also utilized to acquaint leaders in developed countries with the thoughts and asptrations of the developing member countries and with the emerging need for further support. In addition, they provided an
opportunity for certain countries to inform
the President about their views regarding additional measures of support to the Bank.

Vice President

Pursuant to Article. 35(1) of the Agreement, the Board of Directors, at its first
meeting on 17 December 1966, acting on
the recommendation of the President, appointed Mr. C. S. Krishna Moorthi as Vice
President of the Bank for a period of five
years.

Organization

The President was authorized by the Board
of Governors to make such arrangements as
were necessary for the conduct of business
during the period immediately before and
after the opening of the Bank on 19 December 1966. Accordingly, the President set up
é tentative organization and made initial appointments of officers and staff on 24 November 1966 in preparation for the opening
of the Bank.

On 21 December 1966, the Board of Directors considered and approved the proposed basic organizational structure of the
Bank; in the light of experience gained, the

Board of Directors in December 1967 ap- 
proved certain marginal amplifications of
their earlier decision. The basic organization

of the Bank was to be reviewed again by the
Board of Directors early in 1968.

The Bank has been organized into the following Departments/Offices:

Ottice of the Secretary

Office of the General Counsel

Operations Department

Economic and Technical Assistance
Department

Administration Department

Office of the Treasurer

information Office

internal Auditor

A chart of the organization is given. in the
Appendices.

. Staff Recruitment

As at the end of 1947, the Bank had a total staff of 187 (excluding the President and
Vice President} of which 55 were professional
and the remainder non-professional personnel. To keep in step with the necessary

“growth and intensification of loan and tech
nical assistance activities, additional staff of
both categories will be recruited in the
course of 1968: it is expected that the total
number of staff by the end of the year will
reach approximately 270. .

Heads of the Departments/Offices joined
the Bank as follows:

Secretary 24 Novernber 1966
Director of
Administration
General Counsel
Director of Eco
nomic & Technical

24 November 1966
16 February 1967

Assistance 20 March 1967
Director of

Operations 20 April 1967
Chief Information .

Officer 18 May 1967
Treasurer 20 June 1967

Internal Auditor 26 September 1967In the recruitment of staff, the Bank has
been guided by the paramount importance
of securing the highest standards of effipistes and technical competence while paying due regard to the recruitment of personnel on as wide a regional geographical
basis as possible. Staff members have been
recruited from 20 countries, comprising 14
regional countries and 6 non-regional countries. The general salary levels of the Bank,
as approved by the Board of Directors in
January !967, take into account the prevailing local and international rates and the need
to attract and retain a competent corps of
local and international staff with the required
experience and expertise.

Members of the staff are encouraged as a
matter of policy to make their careers in the
Bank. However, it is appreciated that flexibility in the implementation of recruitment policy is needed because the circumstances of
many regional developing member countries
are such that they would not be able to spare
the services of competent, qualified and experienced personnel for lengthy or indefinite
periods. For its non-professional staff, the
Bank has drawn largely ori local resources.

Staff Regulations

The Staff Regulations of the Bank, covering the broad basic personnel policies, were
adopted by the Board of Directors on 21
December 1966. They are submitted separately for review by the Board of Governors.

Staff Benefits

Group medical insurance and medical retainer schemes have been adopted together
with workmen's compensation and personal
accident protection schemes. Life insurance
participation has been encouraged by means
of a Bank-subsidized group life insurance
scheme. Schemes for Dependency Allowance
and Education Grants have also been intro
duced.

A Retirement Plan for the staff of the
Bank is under consideration and is expected
to be finalized early in 1968. In the meantime, 7 per cent of the pay of each staff
member is deducted and credited into a separate account and a contribution from the
Bank arnounting to 14 per cent of the total
staff payroll is set aside pending the adoption of a Retirement Plan.

Participation in all these staff schemes is
open to Directors and their Alternates.

Development of Library

Of critical importance to the effectiveness
of any international development institution
is a complete and up-to-date collection of
reference material. The efforts of the Bank
to establish such a collection were considerably strengthened by donations of books on
economic development by the World Bank,
by similar gifts by the Governments of Australia and Japan and by the provision by the
FAO of reference material on agriculture.
Another source of help for the Library came
from the Technical Assistance contribution of
the United States to cover a set of UN
Treaty Series consisting of 510 volumes as
well as several books and periodicals on subjects of special interest to the Bank. The
United Kingdom also agreed to make available a sum of money for the Bank to purchase
reference material. The supply of material
from the ECAFE as well as from other international institutions has been prompt and
generous. This material, together with the
Bank's own purchases, provides a modest but
good start in building up an adequate library.

Administrative Budget

At the Inaugural Meeting, the Board of
Governors authorized the President to spend
up to the equivalent of US$400.0CO to meet
the administrative expenses of the Bank for
the interim period from 24 November 1966
until the budget for 1967 was approved. The
actual expenditure during the period from24 November to 31 December 1966 was
$101,431.

As required by Section I5 of the By-Laws,
the President submitted to the Board of Directors the Administrative Budget of the
Bank for the first financial year of operation
(Seginning { January 1987) providing for an
expenditure of $3,051,900. This budget was
approved on 14 February 1967.

The Board of Directors carried out a midyear review of the Budget in August 1967 in
the light of the experience gained during the
first half of the year and approved certain
transfers between categories, leaving the fotal provision for expenditure unchanged.

In order to. provide funds for the Bank's
first program of technical assistance, authorized for Indonesia in August 1967, the Board
of Directors approved a supplementary budget of $38,200. The total Administrative
Budget for 1967, taking into account this supplementary provision, was $3,090,100.

The Administrative Budget for the financial year 1968 providing for expenditure
amounting to $5,901,800 was approved by
the Board of Directors in December 1967.
This represents an increase of $2,811,700
over the 1967 budget. The main reasons for
the increased expenditure estimates are:—

a. the fact that many normal items of expenditure (including salaries) were not
applicable in full during the year 1967;

b. expansion of staff, particularly in the
Departments of Operations and of
Economic and Technical Assistance:
and

€. projected intensification of operational
functions, including technical assistance activities, in 1968.

The estimated income for 1968 is $6,300,000,
which, after allowing for budgeted expenditure of $5,901,800, would leave a budgeted
surplus of $398,200.

A detailed report on the Administrative

Budget is submitted separately to the Board
ot Governors.

Philippine Government Coordinating
Committee ‘

The Philippine Coordinating Committee, e
committee of the Philippine Government to
coordinate its responsibilities in relation to
the Bank, was set up by Executive Order of
the President of the Philippines on 15 December 1966, The Committee's functions cover
such matters as arrangements for providing
furnished temporary offices for the Bank and
the preparation of plans for a furnished permanent building; advisory work in connection
with legislation pertaining to the Bank; and
liaison and assistance to the Bank in such mat
“ters as may require action by the Govern“ment of the Philippines.

The Committee, which is headed by Mr.
Cornelio Balmaceda, who is also a member
of the Board of Directors of the Bank,
has extended the maximum cooperation
to the Bank at all times. It has  provided the Bank with its furnished temporary
premises and has met the requirements of
additional space as they have arisen: but for
its sustained interest and help, the task of the
Bank in securing the necessary facilities
throughout the first year of its existence
would have proved much more formidable.

Headquarters Building

The Government of the Philippines has reserved, according to the provisions of Republic Act No. 4649 of 9 June 1966, a plot
of land on Roxas Boulevard in the Greater
Manila area, for the construction of the permanent headquarters of the Bank. The Government. has commenced construction activities and current expectations are that the
building will be ready by the latter part of
1969. The building has been designed to
meet the normal staff and other requirements of the Bank over the first ten years
of its operations. Within the same plot ofland and connected with the proposed Bank
building are also to be located the of
fices of the United Nations organizations
in Manila. A Committee of the Board
of Directors advised on the planning of
accommodation in the proposed building
and, on lines indicated by the Committee
and approved by the Board of Directors, the
Bank communicated its views to the Philippine Government. :

Headquarters Agreement

A Headquarters Agreement between the
Government of the Philippines and the Asian

Development Bank was entered into in Ma-.

nila on 22 December 1966, subject to ratitication by the former in accordance with its
constitutional processes. Pending ratification,
the contents were substantially given effect
to by an ad interim Exchange of Letters. The
Agreement was, duly ratitied by the President of the Philippines and came into force
on 27 July 1967. Its text has been published
in the Summary of Proceedings of the Inaugural Meeting.

Travel Document

At the Inaugural Meeting, the Board
of Governors adopted a resolution urging the
members of the Bank to take all appropriate
steps to facilitate the travel of Bank. personnel to and from and within their territories
for the purposes of the business of the Bank.

Although no major problems have been
encountered by Bank personnel in travelling
in member countries, certain minor difficulHes have arisen, most of them associated
with the issue of visas. Arrangements were
therefore made towards the end of the year
to issue to Bank personnel a ‘Travel Document which would assist in their identification and would indicate by reference to relevant provisions of Chapter Vill of the Agreement the immunities and privileges to which
they would be entitled in the course of official travel in member countries.

Visitors to the Bank

An indication of the interest taken in the
Bank is the number of visitors received in the
course of the year. The Prime Minister of
Japan and the Deputy Prime Minister of Malaysia included a visit to the Bank during their
official visits to the Philippines. Representatives of Governments (including Governors
and Alternate Governors], bankers, industrialists and many others visited the Bank. In addition, international trade missions and goodwill missions touring Asia made it a point to
call in at the Bank.

PART FOUR

FINANCES OF THE BANK

A. Ordinary Operations

Capital Subscriptions

F HE Articles of Agreement provide for
' an authorized capital of the Bank of
$1,000 million of which $500 million is paidin and $500 million is callable. At the Inaugural Meeting, the Board of Governors authorized an increase in the capital stock to $1,100
million. At the time of the Inaugural Meeting,
the capital subscriptions amounted to $965
million. With the entry of Switzerland, the
capital subscriptions stand at $970 million.

The Articles of Agreement require that
half the paid-in capital should be paid in gold
or convertible currency and the balance in
the currency of the member, the payments
being due in five equal annual instalments.
Two instalments have so far been paid towards the capital subscriptions.

The payments made are shown in the following table:First tastatment

 

  
 
     

Convert
Convert. ible

ible

  
   

Currency Currency
Regional
Members
Afghanistan 239
Australia 4,250 4,250
Cambodia 175
Ceylon 426
China 800
India 4,650
Indonesia 1,250
Japan 10,000 10,000
Korea | ,500
Laos 21
Malaysia 1,000
Nepal 108
New Zealand 1,128
Pakistan 1,600
Philippines 1,750
Rep. of Viet-Nam 600
Singapore 250
Thailand 1,000
Western Samoa 3
Non-Regional
Members :
Austria 250 250
Belgium 250 250
Canada 1,250 |,250
Denmark 250 250
Finland 250
Germany 1,700 1,700
Italy | ,000 | 000
Netheriands 550 550
Norway 250 250
Sweden 2 250 250
Switzerland 250 250
United Kingdom 1,500 1,500
United States 10,000 10,000
TOTAL 48,500 31,750

 

Art. 6.26]

 

 

  
 

incon
vertible
Currency

239

175
426
800
4,650
1,250

1,500

1,000
108
1,128
1,600
1,750
600
250
| 000

250

16,750

  
 

Under

Art. 6.22)

Convert.
ible
Currency

239
4,250

426
800
4,650
1,250
10,000
1,500
2\
1,000
108
1,128
1,600
1,750
600
250
1,000

250
250
1,250

250 |

250
1,700
1,000

550

250

250

1,500
10,000

48,075

 

 

Afghanision has peid in advance the third instalment due in 1968; this payment is not included in this Toble.

Cambodia has given notice of withdrawal from the Bank (see Page 6).

IME Art. VIL Currencies ond Swiss Francs have been treated as “Converlibie Currencies" for purposes of this Table.
Switzerland became a member and paid ifs first instalment in December 1967 in US Dollars.

PAYMENTS BY MEMBER COUNTRIES
TOWARDS CAPITAL SUBSCRIPTION
{in Thousand US Dollars}

Second Instaime

 

Cusrency

4,250

10,000

280
250
1,250
250

1,700
i ,000
550
250
250

1,500
10,000

31,500Total of Ist & 2nd Instalments

 

 

 

 

Art 6.216) a satel wh Babi
ine “be ae verte
: ions Cu mel Currency Currency
239 478 478
8,500 8,500
175 175
426 852 852
800 1,600 1,600
4,650 9,300 9,300
{250 2,500 2,500
20,000 20,000
1,500 3,000 3,000
21 42 42
1,000 2,000 2,000
_ 108 216 216
1,128 2,256 2,256
| ,600 3,200 3,200
1,750 3,500 3,500
600 200 1,200
250 500 500
1,000 2,000 2,000
3 6 6
500 500
500 500
2,500 2,500
500 500
250 500 500
3,400 3,400
2,000 2,000
1,100 1,100
500 500
500 500
250 250
3,000 3,000
20,000 20,000
16,575 96,575 63,250 33,325

 

 

 

 

 

 

Certain members have generously made
their local currency payments in a manner
that has augmented the Bank's resources
available ‘for investment.

The Federal Republic of Germany paid
both portions of its first and second instalments in cash; the payment was in US dollars
for the first instalment and in Deutsche Mark
for the second instalment; Austria, Italy and
Norway paid the local currency portion of
both instalments in cash. On joining the Bank
Switzerland paid both portions of its first instalment in US dollars?

Investment of Bank Funds

In investing its funds not immediately required for operations, the Bank has been
guided by considerations of security, liquidity and yield, subject to the requirements of
Article 24 of the Agreement.

The Board of Directors, in adopting a Resolution on Investment Policy on 10 March
1967, decided: :

"I. That the President, or the officers
of the Bank designated by him, hereby be
authorized in the name and on behalf of
the Bank (a) to invest all or any part of the
Bank's holdings of the currency of any
country (except currencies derived from
the local currency portion of the subscriptions of members paid in under paragraph
2(b) of Article 6 of the Articles of Agreement of the Bank} not needed in its operations by the purchase from time to time
at current market prices at the time of
purchase, of bonds, notes and other obligations of such country or guaranteed by
such country, payable in such currency and
maturing not more than 3 years after the
date of purchase thereof; or by the deposit in time accounts with commercial
banks maturing within 2 years; and (b}) from
time to time to sell at current market
prices at the time of sale any or all such
obligations which shall be held by the
Bank; or to withdraw from time to time
such time deposits which shall be held by
the Bank.2. That the President, or the officers of
the Bank designated by him, be authorized
in the name and on behalf of the Bank to
execute any and all such documents and
to do any and all such acts and things as
he or any of the designated officers shall
deem necessary or proper in order to carry fully into effect the purpose of the foregoing resolution.

3. That the authorization given above
be reviewed by the Board within one
year.”

By a later Resolution dated 12 December
1967, the Board authorized an account relationship with the Bank for International Settlements, under which the funds placed with
the BIS should not exceed the equivalent of
US$5 million.

Of the investments made by the Bank
as at the end of 1967, 53.4 per cent was
held in Government Paper and Treasury Bills
and 46.6 per cent in Time Deposits with commercia! banks. In arranging deposits with
commercial banks, the Bank has attempted
to initiate relationships that would serve in
due course to promote the Bank's role as an
international financial institution and to encourage the commercial banks to take more
interest in the future activities of the Bank.

The Bank's holdings of convertible currencies, as at the end of 1967, in Government
Paper, Treasury Bills, Time Deposits end Certificates of Deposit, and working balances,
were as follows:

US Dollar (Million)

Equivalents
US Dollars 55.45
Japanese Yen 20.36
Pound Sterling 12.45
Australian Dollars 8.46
Deutsche Mark 3.40
Italien Lira 2.00
Austrian Schillings 0.50

Norwegian Kroner 0.50

Rates of interest and yields on long-term
bonds rose significantly in the third quarter
of 1966; but from November 1966 until April 1967 there was a reversal of
this trend. From May, however, there was
another shift in the opposite direction, particularly in the U.S. market, and by September the upward movement had been.-clearly
re-established. In November the par value of
the pound sterling and some other currencies was changed and, simultaneously, the
Bank Rate in the United Kingdom and discount rates in United States, Canada and
certain other countries were raised, although
not in uniform measure.

income and Expenditure

This rise in money market rates, which
reached the highest levels in half a century,
has brought a significant incorne increase
over the initial expectations of the Bank as
reflected in the original Administrative Budget for 1967 presented to the Board of Directors in February 1967 and the mid-year Review in August 1967. At the same time, administrative expenses turned out to be lower
than originally estimated, thereby augmenting net income.

Under the provisions of Article 24.5 .and
within the authorized Administrative Budget
for 1967, the Bank utilized, for administrative
expenses, from its local currency holdings the
equivalent of US$308,583. :

The Bank's gross income and expenditure
for the period 24 Novernber 1946 to 31 December 1967 amounted to $4,551,566 and
US$2,453,095 respectively; the ‘resulting net
income amounting to US$2,098,471 is available for allocation by the Beard of Governors, in accordance with the provisions of
Articie 40.1.

Revaluation of Members’ Currencies

During the course of [967, there were reductions in the par values or foreign exchange values of the currencies of the following members: Ceylon, Denmark, Finland, in-donesia, Nepal, New Zealand and the United
Kingdom.

Amounts receivable on account of such reductions were paid by Denmark and Indonesia during the year 1967; arrangements have
been made with the other members for payment of the balance.

Preliminary Arrangements for Borrowings

The Bank is authorized under Article 21 {i}
to resort to borrowings in order to augment
its ordinary resources. As a first step in this
direction the Bank initiated in 1967 the necessary work preparatory to possible borrowings in the United States. The preparatory
work involved in securing the requisite qualification for the Bank's bonds in the various
states in the United States is a detailed and
complicated process, calling for legislation
in many states and administrative rulings in
others. The experience of other international
institutions that have floated bonds in the
United States indicated the need for the early appointment of managing underwriters for
future US dollar bond issues to be made by
the Bank in the United States: accordingly,
in September 1967, the Bank announced the
appointment of Kuhn, Loeb & Co., and The
First Boston Corporation as its managing underwriters for US dollar bond issues in the
United States. In due course, preparatory
steps, as necessary, will have to be considered
for the Bank's bond issues in European and
other markets.

B. Technical Assistance Contributions—

Consolidated Account

In May 1967 the Government of the United States offered to the Bank up to $250,000
for technical assistance purposes; the Board
of Directors approved the acceptance of
this offer as outlined in the relevant exchange
of letters dated 23 June 1967.

In August the Bank was informed of the
willingness of the Government of Canada to

contribute to the Bank Canadian $600,000 by
way of technical assistance; of this sum, Canadian $100,000 would be given in grants for
individual experts or training programs and
Canadian $500,000 in the form of 50-year
interest-free development loans to finance
pre-investment feasibility studies in the identification and preparation of suitable projects through contracts with professional Canadian firms.

During 1947 the Government of the United Kingdom informed the Bank that if the
latter needed help in the field of technical
assistance and made an approach to them
with specific requests, the United Kingdom
Government would help with technical assistance in the form of feasibility surveys, individual experts, etc.

Taking these offers into account, the Board
of Directors, in December 1967, authorized
the establishment of a consolidated account
in respect of resources available for Technical Assistance under Article 19(ii). The relevant Resolution states:

"1. That the Bank establish a consolidated account for the administration of resources available under Article |9fii) of
the Charter to provide technical advice
and assistance serving the purpose and
coming within the functions of the Bank;

and

2. That, as and when the Rules and Regulations governing the administration and
use of Special Funds are adopted, such
Rules and Regulations shall apply to the
administration of this consolidated account.”

Details of the utilization of the Technical
Assistance Contributions thus made available
are given on Pages 21-22. As at the end of
December 1967 utilization of these contributions amounted fo the equivalent of
US$34,098.PART FIVE

 

* HE Departments primarily concerned
with the Bank's activities in developing
member countries are those of Operations
and of Economic and Technical Assistance.
During the year, the first and major task was
to set up a nucleus of staff in each Department and to make a start on the delineation
of an operational strategy that could facilitate and maximize the Bank's potential in assisting developing member countries. In assembling: the core of the operational staff,
two criteria had to be kept in view: it was
not merely necessary to recruit personnel
with the required general professional background of development economics, but also
to recruit specialist professionals in keeping
with the pace at which operational requirements emerged. Thus it was mid-1947 before
the two Departments had recruited the basic
complement of ‘staff, which was further
strengthened in the remaining months of the
year.
The stage was thus set for the Bank to un
dertake the first series of reconnaissance

missions to developing member countries
composed of staff drawn from both Departments. While these visits are envisaged on a
regular basis to all potential borrowing countries, the first reconnaissance missions covered Afghanistan, Ceylon, China, Indonesia,
Korea, Laos,” Malaysis, Nepal, the Philippines, Singapore, Thailand, Viet-Nam and
Western Samoa.* The main objectives of
these missions were to establish the first contacts between the Bank's operational staff
and the authorities in charge of the major
sectors of economic development in the
countries concerned; to try and understand
the developmen? strategy, needs, progress
and prospects of each country visited; to
derive an understanding of the relative priorities and of the possible loan proposals
that might, sconer or later, be presented to
the Bank; and to review the areas where the
Bank could render technical assistance.

* Visits to these two countries took place early in 1968,

In practice, both the countries visited and
the Bank have found such missions a useful
prelude to the dialogue that needs to be fostered and sustained between each developing member country and the Bank. The missions obtained indications from the authorities concerned regarding the various types of
projects under consideration or preparation
which might be presented to the Bank in due
course either for technical assistance (in conducting feasibility studies and other preparatory work] or for project financing or, in certain cases, for both. !t was evident to those
taking part in these missions that, as relationships developed between the Bank and
the countries visited, an increasing number
of proposals for project financing and technical assistance would be forthcoming.

As regards loan applications, apart from
a number of enquiries of an extremely tentative nature, twelve loan proposals were received during the year; by the end of the
year, detailed appraisal had been completed
in respect of one application and recommendations thereon were submitted to the
Board in December 1967 for consideration:
and decision in January 1968." As for other
applications, substantive discussions were in
progress relating to various aspects of the
proposed projects. As processing work on
these applications is intensified, it is expected
that, during 1968, there will be a substantial increase in activities relating to lending.
The need for the establishment, towards this
end, of close contacts between the Bank and
the developing member countries is fully appreciated and has been taken into account in
the provisions for staffing and travel made in
the Administrative Budget for 1968.

Guidelines to be followed by the Bank on
various aspects of iending operations were
considered by the Board of Directors. In
enunciating viewpoints to be borne in mind
"A loan equivclent fo U.S. $5 million to industrial Finance

Corporation of Thoitand was authorized by the Board of

Directors on 23 January 1968 and the foan documents were
execuied ct the Bonk on 25 January 1968,in the assessment of loan proposals, the
Board of Directors recognized that, at the
present stage, policies should be framed to
maximize quickly the Bank's potential usefulness to member countries. Account would
naturally have to be taken, in course of
time, of changes in the needs of developing countries, of experiences in adaptation of lending techniques and of the
activities in this region of other development institutions; and the Bank would have
to be responsive to the particular circumstances of the various countries. {t was
also appreciated that with regard to intraregional cooperation, there were opportunities as well as complexities in a regionalized
approach to financing operations but that
the financing of national development projects may in itself promote, in due course, the
economic growth of the region as a whole.

One of the main arguments for the establishment of regional development banks has
been that such institutions, by their very proximity to the field of action, should be in an
advantageous position fo appraise realistically the rationale underlying economic choices
regarding priorities made by potential borrowers, as well as to make useful suggestions
in this respect to developing member countries. It is important for the Bank to
make it clear that, in considering proposals
for financing, it will be guided not by an
@ priori emphasis on one or the other sectors
of economic activity, but by considerations
relevant to a rational choice as between different investment opportunities; it would follow that, over a period, the range of the
Bank's activities in the different economic
sectors would become substantially diversified.

The problem of interest rates to be
charged on the Bank's ordinary loans was
considered by the Board of Directors and, in
the present context of high interest rates
throughout the world, it was recognized that
this was a matter that would require constant

review. The Bank, as a potential borrower of
funds in international capital markets, must
take into account the money market situation
in fixing its own interest charges; at the same
time, in carrying out its role as a development lender it must try to keep costs to borrowers down to the minimum possible. The
Bank will keep these elements in mind so that,
from time to time, interest rates will be determined on a basis that prejudices neither
the Bank's approach to world capital markets
nor its ability to assist developing member
countries.

During the year under review, drafts of
standard loan regulations, loan agreement
and guarantee agreement were prepared
and submitted to the Board of Directors. Within the requirements of the Articles
these take into account the pattern of such
instruments as have been used by other international lending agencies and have become
familiar to developing member countries. It
has also been borne in mind that the Bank
as a regional institution must present potential borrowers with documents which show an
understanding of the region's past experience
with development loans and which clearly
demonstrate a sense of mutual agreement.

The Bank's policy on procurement was considered by the Board of Directors and a set
of guidelines designed to reflect the Bank's
current thinking on procurement was submitted for its approval.* The Board of Directors
also considered a set of guidelines on the use
of consultants by the Bank and its borrowers.*
Brochures incorporating these two sets of
guidelines for the use of interested parties
are under preparation.

The appropriate blend of technical assistance activities and project financing
within’ the overall range of the Bank's
operations is something that will have to be
determined in the light of experience; it is

* Final approval was given by the Board of Directors in
February 1968.cK?

also obviously an equation that will have to
be varied from country to country and from
time to time. Judging from the observations
made by the Bank's reconnaissance missions
in 1967, it is evident that the role of
the Bank as a source of technical assistance is considered by the countries visited
of no less importance than its activities in the
field of project financing.

The Bank's services in the field of technical
assistance available to developing member
countries are expected to include project
identification and preparation, sectoral development studies, policy formulation and institution building. The capacity of the Bank
to respond to such requests will depend to a
large extent not only on the quality of its
own staff but also on the extent and competence of outside expert help that the Bank
is able to muster. The Bank has already collected and compiled a certain amount of information on the various categories and levels of expertise that can be obtained both
within and without the region trom consultant
Tirms and other professional experts.

It was recognized from the outset that in
order to enable the Bank to function effectively, both in rendering technical and financial assistance and in evaluating advice
given by outside experts, there would need
to be developed within the Bank a capacity
to collect and maintain current statistical information and to analyze, through systematic
research, the economic circumstances of
member countries. With regard to the collection and compilation of statistics, a start was
made in the context of the Asian Agricultura!
Survey {see next column jundertaken by the
Bank for which relevant statistical information was gathered and tabulated. Statistical series of the sixteen regional developing member countries were prepared
on the. most important agricultural indicators such as area, production and yield
of maior crops, land area, irrigation, prices,
production and consumption of commercial

fertilizers, livestock, the calorie, fat and protein contents of national average food supplies, and trade summaries. In the context of
the Survey. Bank staff undertook the’ processing of growth curves and other regression models through computer programs.
Although this has been a helpful start in the
application of quantitative and_ statistical
techniques, it has become evident that the
Bank must equip itself to expand and extend
this work over the coming years.

Another proposal concerning the collection

-of statistical data* involves collaboration

with the World Bank in studies relating to
the external public debt position and prospects of developing member countries, a
field in which the World Bank has developed
considérable expertise. The proposal would
enable the two institutions to consult and
collaborate. with each other in respect of
the method of collection, processing and
analysis of country data. The arrangement would avoid costly duplication of
this important work, would make available to
the Bank the expertise of the World Bank
staff and would give valuable opportunities
for training.

The Board of Directors has emphasized
that while utilizing studies and analyses made
available by other international institutions

_ to the fuliest possible extent. it is important

that the inferences to be drawn or the value
judgments to be derived must be those of
the Bank itself. In those areas where lacunae
exist in analysis of certain economic problems relevant to the region, a start has been
made on research activity oriented towards
the particular role contemplated for the Bank
in the region.

Asian Agricultural Survey

The main theme of economic programing in the developing countries ot the region in the past decade has been the diversification of their economies by industrial de
* Approved by the Board of Directors in January 1968.velopment and by the strengthening of the
infrastructure to facilitate further economic
growth. Although agriculture has by no
means been neglected, this traditional mainstay of developing economies has not always
attracted policy planning and investment in

a measure commensurate with its impor- 
tance. A reflection of this situation has
been the fact that the major transformations in the sphere of agriculture that
have occurred elsewhere are only just beginning in most of the developing countries. Another result of the comparatively static situation in agriculture has been the
fact that with rising populations, and with
the increased purchasing power that economic development has released in its wake,
economic imbalances in developing countries
have been accentuated.

The problem of food supplies has in particular become a matter of major concern in
the region as elsewhere; this problem has
been rendered more acute, on the one hand,
by the diminution in the surpluses available
from countries where agriculture has been
modernized and developed along commercial
lines, and, on the other, by the need in developing countries to promote nutritional
standards to desirable levels. Further, in societies with static agricultural production but
with rising consumption standards and population, balance of payments difficulties tend
to be aggravated by the need to import
foedgrains and by the failure of exportoriented agriculture to keep pace with the
need to improve export earnings. As a result of these factors, the acceleration of agricultural development through higher production and diversification of crops has assurned a new dimension of importance and
urgency. ‘

The process of agricultural development,
however, is a complex problem; it involves
the re-education of substantial numbers of
farmers in improved methods of cultivation
and in optimizing the technical inputs neces
sary to raise agriculture to higher levels of
productivity; it involves the setting up of extension services and of credit mechanisms to
help the farmer; it involves technological research since lessons learnt outside the tropics
may not automatically apply to the region;
it involves the promotion of agricultureoriented industry and of infrastructure such
as roads and irrigation: finally and not the
least, it involves the frequent review and revision of policies so as to keep before the
farmer the necessary incentives to invest
more in his lands and to increase and diversity production. In terms of over-all investment, it may call for reconsideration
of priorities as between various investment
opportunities in agriculture itself or between
agriculture and industry. Apart from these
considerations, agricultural development calls
for a sustained effort over a period of time
if it is to have any discernible impact on the
agricultural productivity in a country.

It was essentially the stress laid on agricultural development by responsible authorities
of developing member countries of the Bank,
and a recognition of the complexities in this
sector, that led the Bank to institute a regional survey of agriculture — the Asian
Agricultural Survey. The main purpose was
to facilitate the future operational role
of the Bank in the sphere of agriculture through a study of the key problems of agriculture in the region and by
recommending, for consideration by the
Board of Directors, courses of action appropriate for the Bank in promoting agricultural
development. The Survey was also designed
to formulate the background against which
potential contributors could appraise the
need for contributions to Special Funds for
agricultural development proposed for the
Bank. The project involved a study of the recent past trends, current situation and programs of development, problem areas for
short-term and long-range development and
strategies and priorities for the formulationof programs for productivity improvement
and resources development. The Survey also
covered agriculturally-related industries.

In principle, all developing member countries of the Bank came under the purview of the Survey. Taking into account the
limitations of time and manpower, as weil as
studies and surveys previousiy undertaken by
other international or national agencies, the
Survey field studies covered: (a} a general regional review embracing all developing member countries, and (b) more intensive observations and studies on the principal typical
problems of the region.

The Survey was organized at two levels:
{a} a Consultative Committee, and (b} a
Technical and Economic Survey Team. The
composition of these two groups is given in
the Appendices. A good deal of groundwork,
including the preparation of a number of
background papers and briefing data, was
done by the statf of the Bank before the convening of the first meeting of the Consultative Committee in the second week of July.

The Consultative Committee, which consisted of eleven internationally known agricultural experts and economists, met | [-14 July
at the Bank to advise on the scope and content as well as the methods and procedures
of the Survey.

The Committee proposed three specific
objectives of the Survey:

First, it should provide the Bank with a
suitable framework for its future operations by equipping it with a good understanding of the needs, problems and opportunities confronting the agricultural
sector in the Asian region. I+ should also
serve as a basis for follow-up work by the
Bank in developing regiona! member countries, :

Secondly, it should serve to inform the
world at large and donor countries in particular of both the urgency and the promise of agricultural development in Asia. !t
should cite concrete opportunities at the

same time as it identifies problems; point

to the possibilities of high returns on cap
ital; and prescribe the specific manner in

which advances in agriculture could im
prove, if not transform, the overal! situa
tion in individual countries.

Thirdly, it should benefit regional member countries on the one hand, from the
wide range of expertise represented in the
Survey Team and from the broad views
they would express on priorities and problems in agricultural development, and on
the other, through identitication of the
type of investment opportunities which are
particularly promising from the point of
view of external financing.

The operational task of the Survey was assigned to the Technical and Economic Survey
Team consisting of 18 experts in various
fields of agriculture.

The Survey Team was assigned the task of
preparing two reports:

I} A Regional Review Report which
would: contain observations on current situations, problem areas and strategies and
priorities for accelerating agricultural development in Asia, with emphasis on shortterm measures for introducing major
breakthroughs for achieving output expansion and productivity improvernents in
agriculture, particularly in the food production sector.

2} Supplementary Reports which would
contain more intensive observations and
studies of problems and strategies in agricuitura! development and suggestions on
possible tields or types of programs in
which the Bank could possibly take an interest.

Aiter a week's orientation at the Bank in
July, the members of the Survey Team visited fitteen regiona! developing member countries and Japan for periods of one to three
weeks in each country over the latter half of
1967. The Survey Team's reports togetherwith the observations of the Consultative
Committee (scheduled to reconvene in February 1968} were expected to be available
in March 1968. :

Regional Transport Survey

Late in December 1967, the Bank received a request from the Government
of Malaysia to undertake a Regional Transport Survey which would, inter alia, study
the needs of transport development in
the Southeast Asian ‘sub-region, determine
the directions in which future transport development should take place, and make recommendations on an investment program,
based on economic priorities of projects. The
request made by the Government of Maleysia arose from a Conjerence held in Kuala
Lumpur in September 1947 where representatives of Brunei, Indonesia, Laos, Malaysia,
Philippines, Republic of Viet-Nam, Singapore
and Thailand agreed on the formulation of
the request to the Bank. The Conference and
the communication from the Government of
Malaysia also made reference to the establishment of Special Funds. The request made
by the Government of Malaysia was due to
be considered by the Board of Directors early in 1968."

Technical Assistance Mission to indonesia

The Government of Indonesia, which is implementing a program of rehabilitation
and stabilization, made a request to the Bank
for technical assistance in devising measures
to improve food production and food availability during the current stabilization period.

After discussions with Indonesian authorities, the following framework for the program of the proposed technica! assistance
mission was agreed upon:

{a} A review of the present situation relating to the current production and mar“in February 1968, the Boord of Directors authorized the

undertaking of work te evolve the fremework and terms
of the Regione! Transport Survey.

keting situation in regard to food crops
and, in so far as it was relevant, to other
agricultural crops;

(b) identification of the bottlenecks and
constraints that had an adverse effect on
maximizing the contribution of agriculture,
especially of food crops, to the current
stabilization-rehabilitation program;

{c] Recommendations on the methods
by which the identified bottlenecks and
constraints could be tackled by governmental action proposed and implemented
during the stabilization-rehabilitation period;

(d) Recommendations on preliminary action that might be taken during the stabilization-rehabilitation period for tackling
such bottlenecks and constraints. as were
inherently incapable of solution within the
relevant period but which, nevertheless,
needed an immediate start on corrective
measures; and

{e] An assessment of the resource-allocation necessary within the capacity of
the Indonesian economy and budget to
provide for (c) above and facilitate a start
on (dj.

It was also agreed that the Mission would
include in its reports any suggestions it might
have for specific projects that might be undertaken in Indonesia in this context.

The Mission commenced work in October
1967 with completion of its assignment
scheduled for early January 1968 at which
time its report and recommendations would
be submitted to the Indonesian Government.* .

Utilization of Technical Assistance
Contributions

As already indicated under Part IV “Finances of the Bank: (B) Technical Assistance
Coniributions — Consolidated Account”,

* The Mission's report was sent to the Government of Indonesia
on 22 Janvary 1968.three member countries have made offers to
the Bank of certain facilities for the extension of technical assistance.

So far, the U.S. and the U.K. offers have
been utilized in the provision of experts for
the Technical Assistance Mission to Indonesia, for the provision of expertise to develop
certain internal procedures in the Bank and
for the enlargement of the Library. Proposals
have been under consideration for technical
assistance and for project appraisal work
which, as and when approved by the Board
of Directors, would enable a quicker pace of
utilization of these offers.

The basic procedure of the Bank in the
context of engaging experts has been firstly
to attempt to locate (if necessary in consultation with other international bodies) the
expertise needed for a particular task, and
then, in light of such information, to examine
the extent to which the offers of technical
assistance facilities made by member countries could be utilized. It has already become
clear that the provision of ancillary resources
of this type will be a source of great support
to the Bank and to its developing member
countries in project identification and preparation, project appraisal, project implementation and provision of technical assistance
for sectoral analyses such as improvement of
food production.

PART SIX

RELATIONS WITH OTHER
INTERNATIONAL
RGANIZATIONS

o
O

F HE Board of Governors, at its Inaugural
' Meeting, passed a resolution requesting
that:

“The Board of Directors make recom
mendations to the Board of Governors
concerning such schemes for cooperation
with other international organizations as
the Board of Directors deems appropriate
and necessary for the conduct of the
Bank's operations.”

Realizing the importance of making effective use where circumstances permit of the
experience and knowledge already accumulated of the region and its needs, the Bank
has actively sought and fostered contacts
with other international institutions; the following paragraphs review the relationships
that have been established or are evolving
in this regard.

United Nations Headquarters Organizations and Regional Commissions

The Secretary-General and the staff of the
United Nations Headquarters were most
helpful in the various stages leading to the
establishment of the Bank and the interest
and goodwill thus displayed by them towards
the: Bank have continued. During their visits
to New York, the President and the Vice
President called on both the Secretary-General and his Chef de Cabinet to apprise
them of the Bank's progress and development.

The Fiscal and Financial Branch of the
United Nations Secretariat, among other divisions of the United Nations Headquarters,
has maintained informal contacts with the
Bank. It has under consideration the sponsoring of various studies of interest to the Bank,
such as the role of regional and national development banks in industrial promotion efforts and in the facilitation of expansion of
exports from developing countries. These
ideas have been explained to the Bank staff
and the Bank is to be kept informed of further developments.

United Nations Development Program

The United Nations Development Programhelped to finance the expenses relating
to the preparatory work involved in  setting up the Bank and the cordial interest
and cooperation of the UNDP continue.
The UNDP does. not normally follow a policy
of entering into written general agreements
for cooperation with other institutions but
prefers to let the relationship evolve on a
mutually satisfactory basis.

The UNDP has recently had under consideration methods to improve follow-up on investment potentials of pre-investment projects which it assists. One important step taken by the UNDP, in this regard, is the “referral to the World Bank and to regional development banks of proposals under consideration for the undertaking of new pre-investment studies. From its inception the Bank
has regularly received from the UNDP information about such proposals as are put forward by its members to the UNDP, and the
UNDP has éxpressed the hope that in due
course, the Bank will be in a position to offer
its comments on such proposals at staff level
and without commitment in regard to financing.

The Bank has also received information
on projects already undertaken by the UNDP
and whenever the Bank has requested, the
full results of pre-investment studies in the region are made available by the UNDP.

The UNDP has also expressed the hope
that, in appropriate cases, the UNDP and the
Bank would cooperate with each other either
by consultation or through staff participation
in the actual conduct of pre-investment stu
dies.

Economic Commission for Asia and the
Far East

The Economic Commission for: Asia and
the Far East has a unique position so
far as the Bank is concerned, mainly because of its record of experience and
achievement in this region and its major role
in the establishment of the Bank. The ECAFE

has kept the Bank informed of its activities
by supplying documentation and by inviting
the Bank's participation in seminars and conferences which it sponsors. The President addressed the 23rd Annual Session of the ECAFE in Tokyo in April 1967. Observers from
the Bank have attended, to mention a few examples, the 20th Session of the ECAFE Committee on Industry and Natural Resources,
the [lth Session of the ECAFE Cornmittee
on Trade, the Seminar on Financial Aspects
of Trade Expansion and the ECAFE Conference of Asian Planners.

It is believed that the pattern of cooperation so far followed is broadly identical with
the relationship that exists between the other
U.N. regional economic commissions and
the regional development banks in Latin
America and Africa. Although there are no
formal agreements between the regional
commission and the regional bank in those
areas, in practice, there is rather close
awareness on the part of each organization
of the activities of the other through exchange of information, delegation of participants to conterences and contacts between
officials. The Bank intends fo sustain this pattern of cooperation with the ECAFE.

International Financial Institutions
World Bank Group

Cooperation with the World Bank dates
from the time when the various preparatory
committees were engaged in drafting the
Agreement Establishing the Bank, the ByLaws and other rules. On the occasion of the
Inaugural Meeting the World Bank donated
to the Bank a coliection of books to serve
as a nucleus for a library. Since then, the
Bank has received from the World Bank advice on particular problems from time to time
and there has also been a regular exchange
of information.

During discussions on the scope of cooperation between the World Bank Group and24

the Bank, it was agreed that inter-institutional relationships be allowed to evolve in the
light of experience and needs rather than
be developed within the framework of a general agreement.

The World Bank has invited the Bank to
participate as an observer in meetings of
Consortia and Consultative Groups relating
to countries that are members of the Bank.
It is evident that such participation has
proved beneficial to the Bank's understanding of the development needs and aid prospects of these countriés.

The World Bank has offered training facilities in its Economic Development Institute
for staff members that the Bank may decide to depute. IH has also given facilities
for concrete working level visits by individual staff members in such areas as administrative and treasury procedures and legal
matters. The Bank has also been able to obtain experts from the World.Bank for specific
projects such as the preparation of staff retirement plans and accounting procedures.

In the field of special studies undertaken
by the Economic Department of the World
Bank, there is opportunity for consultation
and, in due course, specialization within the
two institutions. The Bank's Department of
Economic and Technical Assistance is in close
contact with the Economic Department of
the World Bank and as discussed earlier, arrangements have been made for cooperation
in the study of the external public debt posi
tion in member countries.

International Monetary Fund

As in the case of the World Bank, the International Monetary Fund has agreed, when
so requested, to accept staff members on
training courses run by the IMF Institute. Procedures have been devised and practices developed for consultation between the two
institutions as required in the Agreement.
By participating in exchange of information
on matters of mutual interest and through

periodic visits to the Bank by personnel travelling in this area, the IMF has kept the Bank
in touch with developments in the region as
they concern the IMF.

Regional Development Banks

During the preparatory phase of work in
the establishment of the Bank, the InterAmerican Development Bank made available
an expert to help the Consultative Committee and the Preparatory Committee and
after the opening of the Bank, the IDB has extended help whenever it has been sought. A
considerable volurne of documentation relating to the activities of the IDB and its basic
policies has been made available. It is felt
that continued and intimate contact with the
IDB will be of value in view of that institution's experience with development problems
as seen from the perspective of a regional
bank. Its record in the administration of trust
funds is also of relevance to the Bank.

The African Development Bank has only
recently commenced operations. During the
visit of the Vice President to Abidjan to attend the Annual Meeting of the African Development Bank, there was keen interest displayed in the Asian Agricultural Survey and
in other aspects of the Bank's work. While
the circumstances faced by the African Development Bank and the Bank may differ, the
experience of each Bank is likely to be of
some use to the other and it is clearly desirable to maintain the fullest contact.

Other Institutions
Food and Agricultural Organization

The Food and Agriculture Organization
is one of the organizations in the United
Nations family with which the Bank has
had almost continuous contact and consultation. At the Bank's request, the FAO
made available experts for both the Consiltative Committee and the Technical and Economic Survey Team of the Asian Agricultural

5Survey. It has also provided experts for missions sponsored by the Bank to visit member
countries and has freely given its advice on
technical matters when sought by the Bank.
The Bank has sent representatives to several
meetings of the FAO.

The FAO has entered into an agreement
for cooperative programing of work with
the World Bank and with the Inter-American
Development Bank. In considering similar arrangements with the FAO, the Bank felt it
premature to enter into a general long-term
agreement with that organization. while the
results of the Asian Agricultural Survey were
still pending and while the Bank was still in
the initial phases of establishing its own policies regarding agricultural development.
Also, the financial dimensions of the Bank’s
potential role in agriculture are yet not clear.
For these reasons, both the FAO and the
Bank have agreed that what is needed is
some form of interim cooperation by which
the FAO could provide expertise and technicians to participate in Bank missions as well
as to assist member countries in the identification of such projects as the Bank may be interested in. With this aim in view, a proposal
for cooperation is being submitted separately to the Board of Governors.

United Nations Industrial Development
Organization

Officials of the United Nations Industrial
Development Organization have visited
the Bank to discuss methods of collaboration with the Bank. There is an area of
considerable potential for a cooperative relationship to evolve and the Bank intends to
keep in contact with the UNIDO in this respect.

Asian Institute for Economic Development
and Planning

Subsequent to visits to the Bank by the

Director of the Asian Institute for Economic
Development and Planning, possible relationships between the two institutions are being

studied.
Colombo Plan

As ani organization devoted to the cause
of economic development in Asia, the Colombo Plan has much in common with the
Bank. An observer from the Bank attended
the Annual Meeting of the Colombo Plan
Consultative Committee held in Rangoon in
November-December 1967. The Bank proposes to work out a pattern of close cooperation with the activities of the Colombo Plan
in the field of technical assistance through
the Colombo Plan Bureau in Colombo.

Regional Conference of Development
Banks in Asia

The Third Regional Conference of Devel- °
opment Banks in Asia which was held between September 13 and 15, 1966 in Tokyo
discussed, inter alia, the significance of the
establishment of the Bank from the point of
view of development banks in the regional countries. Among other points, there
was a suggestion that the Bank could provide a lead by convening conferences of
the development banks of Asia. This and
other aspects of potential relationships with
development banks in the region are being
studied.

German Foundation for Developing
Countries

The Bank was represented by observers at
the International Conference on Cooperation
in the Field of Integrated Projects held by
the German Foundation for Developing
Countries (Deutsche Stiftung. fuer Entwicklungslaender} in Berlin. The Bank also participated in a Seminar on Forestry organised by
the Foundation in Manila.26

PART SEVEN

 

A RTICLE 19 of the Agreement authorizes
*< the Bank, inter alia, to accept the administration of Special Funds designed to serve
the purposes and come within the functions of
the Bank, such Special Funds being useable in
any manner and on any terms and conditions
not inconsistent with the purposes of the Bank
and with the agreement relating to such
Funds. The Article also empowers the Governors by a special vote to set aside not more
than 10 per cent of the unimpaired paid-in
capital paid by members under Article 6(2}
for the establishment of one or more Special
Funds, such Funds to be used to guarantee or
make loans of high development priority,
with longer maturities, longer deferred commencement of repayment and lower interest
rates than those relevant to the Bank's ordinary operations.

During the Inaugural Meeting in Tokyo,
statements made by a number of Governors
reflected the need for the Bank to be given
the means to make Joans on easter terms than
in the case of ordinary operations. These
views were based on an assessment of the
limited debt servicing capacity of many potential borrowers in the region. During the
visits undertaken by the President to member
countries, it was repeatedly pointed out to
him that economic development involved the
stepping up of imports far more rapidly than
could be envisaged for exports; that tinancing of the capital gap on conventional terms
of international lending would limit the possibilities of economic growth; that a further
complicating element was the instability of
export earnings of primary producing countries; and that in the vital sectors of agriculture and infra-structure development there
was clear need for concessional lending. It
was also pointed out that the total quantum
of development finance available was out of

keeping with the amount needed to fulfill the .

objectives of the United Nations Development Decade and that in certain aspects the
conditions of aid were hardening.

In December 1966, following the Inaugural
Meeting, the Conference on Agricultural Development in Southeast Asia was convened in Tokyo. This Conference discussed
the strategy of agricultural development
as a major factor in the acceleration of
economic growth in developing countries.
The importance of sound selection of
projects as well as of making external finance available on concessional terms was
stressed. The Conference decided to request
the Bank to consider the establishment of
Special Funds for financing agricultural development projects in Southeast Asia. This request was formally transmitted to the Bank
on 30 January 1967 by the Government of
Japan.

The Board of Directors considered the issues involved in a series of meetings. The importance and urgency of agricultural development in the region was recognized, and
the Board accepted in principle the idea
of Special Funds for agriculture under the
administration of the Bank. In regard to
the’ geographical coverage of the proposed Funds, the Board felt that it would be
undesirable to restrict’ the Bank's use of
Special Funds fo certain member countries.
In coming to this conclusion the Board recognized that the view of donor countries as
to any special emphasis should be taken into
account. These views were accordingly reflected in a statement which the President of
the Bank made on 27 Apri! 1967 at the Second Ministerial Conference for the Econom
_ic Development of Southeast Asia held in

Manila.

As indicated by the Board, the needs of
agriculture in the developing areas of the
region had to be studied carefully from the
point of view of the employment of both ordinary and Special Funds resources. This objective was dovetailed into the scheme for
the Asian Agricultural Survey to which reference has already been made (see Pages
18-21]. The report of the Survey, ex-by

pected to be available in the latter half of
March $968, should be of very great value
in the appraisal of the use of Special Funds
for the development of agriculture.

{t is already evident that among the projects which the Bank would be called upon to
consider for Special Fund financing, agricultural projects and agriculture-oriented projects would be substantial in number. The capacity of the Bank to respond fo this need
would be considerably enhanced by an early
constitution of Special Funds; moreover, the
existence of such Funds would enable the
Board of Directors to consider the deployment of the ordinary capital resources of the
Bank in the appropriate perspective.

In this connection, it is relevant to note
that the Governments of Japan, the United
States, Canada and the Netherlands have already indicated to the Bank that proposals
are under consideration relating to the provision in the course of 1968 of Special Funds
to augment the resources of the Bank. Some
of the other developed member countries
visited by the President during 1967 showed
keen interest in the evolution of thinking in
the Bank on this subject.

The Board of Directors has given further
consideration to matters relating to the constitution of Special Funds. It was recognized
that while giving due emphasis to agricultural development, there may yet be situations where potential donors might wish to
contribute Special Funds for other purposes,
or for general deployment to promote economic development. It was also recognized
that any frarnework evolved by the Board
would have to be flexible enough to cover
circumstances and considerations that might
differ from one donor country to another.

Accordingly, the Board made an initial examination of a proposal for a framework of
rules and regulations covering Special Funds
of the Bank.

In the light of the support: already indicated by certain developed member countries,
the foregoing factors will no doubt be given
due weight during consideration of the possibility of early contributions to Special
Funds. 
At the same time, it has to be recognized
that a global shortage of development financing exists and that there is keen competition
for funds. Because of the spirit of ’understanding displayed by the more affluent
countries, this competition is not entirely determined on the basis of financial return to
lenders; the constructive efforts that have
in the past made concessional financing possible are evidence that capital exporting
countries realize the need to share a portion
of their prosperity with the less fortunate
countries. This policy on the part of capital
exporting countries can only be sustained
over a period of time if the aid thus made
available is properly used by developing
countries to produce tangible evidence of
growth.

Self-help measures by developing countries
are therefore important not only in themselves but also for continuing to attract such
concessional financing.

The Asian Development Bank can be a major vehicle for the sustained and effective
deployment of resources and the responsible
approach that the Bank has taken in facing
the problems of the region should surely establish its entitlement to some priority of access to the limited world resources available
for development.ow mn om ff WwW PY

 

Financial Statements:

Ordinary Operations:

|
I
Wt
IV
Vv
4)

Balance Sheet

Statement of Income and Expenses

Cash in Banks and Demand Obligations of Members
Summary of Investments Held

Subscriptions to Capital Stock and Voting Power
Notes to Financial Statements

Opinion of Independent Auditors

Technical Assistance Contributions —
Consolidated Account:

A Combined Balance Sheet and Statement of

B

Transactions
Notes to Combined Balance Sheet and Statement
of Transactions

Opinion of Independent Auditors

Administrative Budget

Resolutions of Board of Governors at Inaugural Meeting

Channels of Communication

Official Depositories

Board of Governors

Board of Directors and Voting Groups

Principal Officers

Organization Chart

Asian Agricultural Survey — Members of Consultative
Committee and Survey Team

Pages

32-33

35

36-37
38-39
40-4 |

42

44
45

46

47
48
49
50.
51-53
54
55
56
5732

APPENDIX |

 

Expressed in United:

in

ASSETS

$s

CASH IN BANKS (Notes B and C}) - Member currencies
{See Appendix III}

INVESTMENTS:

Government or government-guaranteed obligations —~

amortized cost (face amount, $85,257,866) (See Appendix IV}

Time deposits and certificates of deposit

(See Appendix 1V}
Accrued interest

DEMAND OBLIGATIONS OF MEMBERS (Notes B and C):
Non-negotiable, non-interest-bearing obligations in
member currencies (See Appendix Ili)

OTHER AMOUNTS RECEIVABLE FROM MEMBERS:
Subscription instalment (Note C}
Amount required to maintain value of currency holdings

(Note D}
OTHER ASSETS

STAFF RETIREMENT PLAN — Cash on deposit, segregated
and held in jrust (Note §}

TOTAL

$ 3,109,202

‘
$ 54,949,311 |
od
47,561,981 |
oe d
102,514,292 {
1,275,702 103,786,994 | |
4
86,593,284
350,000 |
2,322,472 2,672,472 |
126,273
I
67,652}
_$196,357,877

 

The accompanying noles to financial statements

'
!
i
t
I
f
iStates Dollars (Note A)

ni

LIABILITIES AND CAPITAL

a

. LIABILITIES:
Accounts Payable , $ 57,710
Accrual for Bank's contribution to Staff Retirement Plan
(Note &} 145,528

Other liabilities 8,506

é “STAFF RETIREMENT PLAN — Participants’ contribution

and accumulated income (Note &]
CACAPITAL (Note C):
Capital stock (See Appendix V):

Authorized —~ 55,000 “paid-in'' shares and 55,000 "caliable”
shares of $10,000 par value each:

Subscribed {97,000 shares] 970,000,000
Less callable shares subscribed {48,500 shares} 485,000,000
Paid-in shares subscribed {48,500 shares} 485,000.000
Less subscription instalments not due 291,500,000
Subscription instalments matured 193,500,000
Advance payment on subscription © 478,000
Net income (te be allocated by the Board of Governors} 2,098,471
TOTAL

\ppendix VI} are an inlegro! port of this statement.

ve

$ 201,754

69,652

196,076,471

$196,357,877APPENDIX {i

 

   

ran *
swe

FROM NOVEMBER 24, 1966* TO DECEMBER 31, 1967

Expressed in United States Dollars (Note A)

 

INCOME:
Investment income ......... wi eee MoE eee 4 wea
Other
EXPENSES:
Administrative expenses:
Board of Governors x sux wax y yay eu awe 9 cay eee

Board of Directors:
Salaries 2.6.02. eee, oe beeen eee
Benefits ........... Soi EE o Ole g EIN TE GEN Sig GERRY a
Travel 2...00.00.. Lee tee cece eens

Staff:
Salaries beeen ee bn ee cee ee cee eee teens
BeAROTS 5 5 hag © Sav HOE NO) GHA HORS BER FORE WOE GG 4 a
Travel
Representation TRS We ile FLAG Weis GE G bere Gem «
Consuliants eee cece eee

Other administrative expenses:
Supplies and equipment .......
Communications ...0..0..0.....004
Office occupancy .....
Publications and printing ..
Miscellaneotis ga: wav nye nev non © amie © mae RQ Oey |

Total other administrative expenses .

Total administrative expenses ...............,
Services to member countries .

Total expenses ..

NET INCOME [Note C) 0000.0 ccc cc cec cece eee

The accompanying notes to financial statemenis {Appendix Yi) are on integral part of this statement.
* Date of inaugural Meeting of the Board of Governors

Gro
a

$4,547,533
4,033

\7AV7

364,337
55,634
111,701

531,672

802,324
185,313
394,856

20,213
148,188

1,550,894

173,577
34,230
21,801
34,066
46,288

309,972
2,409,955

43,140

$4,551,566

2,453,095

$2,098,471APPENDIX IH

Members

REGIONAL:

 

Afghanistan
Australia
Cambodia
Ceylon .... a
China, Republic o' of
India
Indonesia
Japan
Korea, Republic of
Leos .
Malaysia
Nepal
New Zeeland .
Pakistan
Philippines
Singapore ax
Thailand: ....
Viet-Nam, Republic of .
Western Samoa

 

Total Regional

NON-REGIONAL:

Austria...
Belgium
Canada
Denmark
Finland oe
Germany, Federal | Republic
Haly: es xix ie
Netherlands ....

Sweden ican nem sevne g
United Kingdom
United States

  

 

Total Non-Regional .....,

GRAND TOTAL ....

e.9

Cae

 

Expressed in United States Dollars (Note A}

Unit of Currency

Afghani
Australian Dollar
Riel

Cey. Rupee
New Taiwan Dollar
Indian Rupee
Rupiah, New
Yen

Won

Kip

Mal. Dollar
Nepal Rupee

N. Z. Dollar
Pak, Rupee
Philippine Peso
Sing. Dollar
Baht

Piastre

W. S, Dollar

Austrian Schilling
Belgian Franc
Canadian Dollar
Danish Krone
Finnish Markka
Deutsche Mark
lialian Lira
Netherlands
Swedish Krona
Pound Sterling
U. S. Dollar

Suilder

Cash in Banks

6, 08?
1,499,820
5,998

2,529,881

4,423

6,250

15,968

332.468
220,212

579,321
$ 3,109,202

Demand Obligations
of Members

$ 747,000 2
8,500,000

w

1&2

673,974
{,590,000
9,290,000
1.513,158

20,000,000
2,990,000

NNN

1&2

n

1&2

1,990,200

160,462
1,817,208
3,190,130
3,200,000

490,200
¢,996,000

NMyNKB URW

1&2
1&2

58,142,332

500,000
2,500,000
500,000
380,952

|, 100,006
500,000
3,000,000
20,000,000

28,480,952
$86,593,284

The accompanying notes to finuncia!l statements (Appendix Vi} are an integral part of this stotement.

1 May be replaced by demand obiigations by members (Notes B & C)

2 Restriciions on use may de imposed by members (Note 8}

Restrictions on use have been imposed by members {Note B)

 

Total

$ 717,000
8,500,711
175,000
$80,369
1,596,588
9,298,072
2,476,02 |
20,011,628
2,993,865
42,000
1,998,921
163,744
1,817,208
3,197,954
3,271,754
499,49 |
£996,069
1,199,820
5,998

60,642,213

4,423
500,000
2,500,000
500,000
380,952
8,250
15,968

1, 100,000
500,000
3,332,468
20,220,212

29,060,273
$89,702,486iw

o~

Fal

APPENDIX IV

 

Expressed In Unite

 

Government or Government-Gueranteed Obligations:

 

Couniry : Face Amount Amortized Cost
APS gawss sy ns mewwee saa wauemen eee eee one ... $20,362,500 $20,344,410
United States ............ 5 UOMO BB ea K AMOmR Ge YE 20,278,000 20,126,634
Australia oe Couedé aa BH 8,535,520 8,445,183
Waited Kingdom ws misc is soe mamas ws x ew eo ee ome 5,928,000 5,879,238
PUD cceccuun g Fv oo 0 UEN DT 1 EERO 8 NN EE Rae aE 153,846 {53,846

Total Te eee $55,257,866 $54,949,311

The accompanying notes ta financiat statemerHELD, DECE
States Dollars (Note A}

na tt

 

Time Deposits and Certificates of Deposit:
AE Repel ie ee ee

Currency Amount

United States Dollar sc mes ccs geese see eee ke gem nae see om ome $35,100,000 |
Pound Sterling 2.00. ..00 0000. c eee ees 2s E eae ROR RBS TEES 6,240,000
Deutsche Mark 200.000.0000 ccc ee nee eee 3,393,750
Halian Lira 2.0 ....-...0000. obec cece cbt e beet e eb eee e ene e teens 1,984,000
Norwegian Krone .....2... 00250002 ee 8 RRR? aa RRO ge ee eo 500,000

_ Austrian Schilling cciexys see oe- “oniriscica w #4 44 me wmmungh oa neg Bn women eR DERE? 344,231
Total igianeccnaus oan vs cmcnavmm ove nnn iin v@eed 428% i Gimmes os gages $47,561,981

‘Appendix VI} are on integral part of this statement:

far
-yAPPENDIX V¥

MEMBERS

oP

4d

Pa

Expressed in Thousands of

 

 

REGIONAL:
Afghanistan
Australia...
Cambodia zy sa x says + yay men g sone aie x 1
Ceylon ... bebe e cee cece ee
China, Republic Of osc eee wan so ua 8
India eee ces
WleROSIA ge cs ews i pws pen y wen ows ie 2 3
Japan .... Lene ee teen es
Korea, Republic Of ee cee cece eee
LES! wine wy ave bee eect teeter eet ee
Malaysia: ae age s vow on
Nepal ...........4-.
New Zealand oss sO 2 eG EO
Pakistan .0.. 2.00... 0 eee eee Seen ees
PRANDRINES yams wae 2 nw 905 4 Oe wo 9 8 Ew
Singapore 2... eee ees
TROUBAE: oc sass 2 ewi0w wars 2 om 2 a pee 9 OY 8 HTS
Viet-Nam, Republic of .00........00.0.

Western Samoa sas « aus wan 9 ewe nes ¢ coe pees

 

Total Regional .................50.

NON-REGIONAL:

Austria... eee eee eee
Belgidin) scx 2 exe vos & view ners x pO Wes RE Re
Canada
Denmark
Finland ..
me Federal Republic of .
Waly cece eee eee
bier hetleele Sos SESE SES BEG sua SSR TSS RAGS
Norway enters
SWEdEN cg = suis 5 0) & WER EUG ERG Rema See g

Switzerland oo. eee eee
United Kingdom | Cs SE EES b Hee 2 mens
United States 20... ee

 
 

Total Non-Regional ..............-.
GRAND TOTAL 20.0.0. c cece ccc cece

The accompanying notes to finencial stalements (Appendix VI) are on inlegral pari of this statement

"Excludes advance payment on subscription {Note C}
** includes subscription instalment not paid {Note C}

Shares

478
8,500
350
852
5,00
9,300
2,500
20,000
3,000
42
2,000
216
2,256
3,200
3,500
500
2,000
1,200
6

61,500

20, 000

35,500
97,000

SUBSCRIBED
Per Cent
of Total

63.39

Par Value

$ 4,780
85,000
3,500
8,520
16,000
93,000
25,000
200,000
30,000

$15,000

5,000
5,000
25,000
5,000
5,000
34,000
20,000
11,000

5,000 °”

5,000
5,000
30,000
200,000

355,000
$970,000“Par Value of

ited States Dollars (Note A}

 

 

PAR VALUE OF PAID-IN SHARES
Subscription instalments

 

 

 

Callable Shares Not Due
cast § 2,390 $ 1,434
: a 42,500 se E00

on 1,050
4,260 ees
8,000 4,800
46,500 27,900
12,500 a Eas
noes 60,000
15,000 Fa00
210 126
10,000 ORD
1,080 ak
11,280 8,768
ee 9,600
17,500 een
2,500 ap
10,000 tao
6.000 cue
30 re
“307,500 184,500
a 1,500
a 1,500
no 7,500
2,500 (BEd
2 1,500
ee 10,200
ne 6,000
os 3,300
2,500 1500
pee 1,500
2,500 bnee
15,000 eons
100,000 60,000
177,500 77 000
aes, 000 $291,500

 

Matured

$  956*
17,060
700**

2,400
12

123,000

1,000
(000
§,000
1,000
1,000
6,800
4,000
2,200
1,000
1,000
500
6,000
40,000

70,500
$193,500

VOTING POWER

 

 

 

 

 

Number Per Cent
of Votes of Total
1,235 1.02

9,257 7.64 t,107 091
1,609 133
2,357 1.94
10,057 330
3,257 269
20,757 712
3757 310
799 0.66
2,757 297
973 0.80
3,013 748
3,957 326
4,257 351
[257 1.04
2,757 2.27
1,957 1.64
763 0.63
75,883 2.58
1,257 104
1,257 1.04
3,257 2.69
1,257 1.04
4,257 104
4,157 343
a 2.27
1,857 153
1,257 9a
1,257 04
1,257 104
3,757 310
20,757 17.12
aia 37.42
121,224 100.00APPENDIX Vi

     

rie ‘eae

Expressed in United States Dollars (Note A}

NOTE A

Amounts in currencies other than United
States dollars have been translated into
United States dollars:

{I} In the cases of 23 members, at par
values established by these members with
the International Monetary Fund;

{2} In the cases of 7 members (the Republic
of China, Cambodia, Indonesia, Laos, the
Republic of Korea, the Republic of VietNam and Western Samoa} at the rates
used by them in making payments of capital subscriptions to the Bank, and determined -by the Bank to be the rates appropriate for this purpose.

No representation is made that any currency held by the Bank is convertible into
any other currency at any rate or rates.

NOTE B

In accordance with Article 6, paragraph
3, to the extent such currencies are not required by the Bank for the conduct of its
operations, non-negotiable, non-interest bearing demand obligations of members may be
substituted for cash in banks aggregating
$2,385,681 as explained further in Note C.

in accordance with Article 24, paragraph
2 {i}, the use by the Bank or by any recipient
from the Bank may be restricted by the member to making payments for goods and services produced and intended for use in its territory: as follows:

The use of cash in banks and demand obligations in the currencies of 16 mernbers
aggregating $30,180,805.

In accordance with Article 24. paragraph
2 [ii), the use by the Bank or by any recipient
from the Bank has been restricted by the
member to making payments for goods and
services produced in its territory, as follows:

* Date of Inaugural Meeting of the Board of Governors.

FROM NOVEMBER 24, 1966* 10 DECEMBER 31, 1967

The use of demand obligations in the currencies of 2 members aggregating $10,
317,208.

Article 24, paragraph 4, provides that currencies held by the Bank may not be used by
the Bank to purchase other currencies of
members or non-members except to meet its
obligations in the ordinary course of business,
or unless the Board of Directors authorizes
such purchase by a vote representing at least
two-thirds of the total voting power of the
members.

NOTE C

The original authorized capital of the Bank
was $1,000,000,000 in terms of United States
dollars of the weight and fineness in effect on
January 31, 1966. Of the original authorized
capital $500,000,000 was ‘paid-in’ shares
and $500,000,000 was "callable" shares.

In November 1966, the Board of Governors approved an increase of $100,000,000
in authorized capital of which $50,000,000
was ‘paid-in’ and $50,000,000 was '‘callable". such shares to be available for the admission of new members.

As of December 31, 1967, the subscribed
capital was $970,000,000 of which $485,000,000 was ''paid-in'' shares and $485,000,000 was “callable” shares.

The subscribed "paid-in capital stock is
payable in five equal instalments, each of
which is payable 50% in gold or convertible
currencies and 50% in the currency of the
respective member or in non-negotiable, noninterest-bearing demand obligations, as permitted under the provisions of Article 6, paragraph 3, in lieu of the currency of such
member.

Cambodia, Indonesia, Laos, the Republic
of Viet-Nam and Western Samoa paid in
cash their capital subscription under Article

et:6, paragraph 2(b}. These cash payments can
be replaced by promissory notes or other
demand obligations in accordance with Ar
ticle 6, paragraph 3.

Cambodia did not pay the second instalment {$350,000} which was due on August 22,
1967, for the reason mentioned below. All
other matured instalments amounting to
$193,500,000 have been paid as of December 31, 1967 and the balance of $291,500,000-is payable as follows:

{i} $289,500,000 in three equal instalments
on August 22 in each of the years 1968
through 1970;

{2} $2,000,000 in four equal instalments on
December 29 in each of the years !968
through 1971 {representing the subscription of Switzerland, which paid the first
instalment on December 29, 1967}.

Afghanistan has paid in advance the subscription instalment due on August 22, 1968.

Cambodia notified the Bank on September
18, 1967 of its intention to withdraw from
membership in the Bank. Under the provisions of Article 41, paragraph 2, the withdrawal shall not be finally effective, at the
earliest, until six months after that date. The
repurchase price of a member's shares is
based upon the book value of such shares
at the date a country ceases to be a
member and shall not be. paid until six
months after that date; accordingly the
repurchase price of Cambodia's shares is not
determinable at this time.

The callable capital stock is subject to call
only as and when required by the Bank to
meet its obligations incurred on borrowings

or on guarantees.

Under the provision of Article 40, the
Board of Governors shall determine annually
what part of the net income shall be allocated, after making provision for reserves, to
surplus and what part, if any, shall be distributed to the members.

Net income for the period November 24,
1966 to December 31, 1966 was approximately $698,000.

NOTE D

The amount represents payments receivable, for which arrangements have been
made, on account of the reductions in the
par values or foreign exchange values of the
currencies of the following members: Ceylon, Finland, Nepal, New Zealand, and the
United Kingdom.

NOTE E

The Board of Directors has authorized the
developmen} including necessary actuarial
studies, of a statf retirement plan (the Plan}.
Pending the completion and approval of the
Plan, the Bank has withheld seven per cent

from the gross salary (exclusive of allowances}

of participants and has deposited such
amount in savings accounts to be held in .
trust, together with earnings therefrom, for
the Plan. The aggregate amount of these accounts at December 31, 1967 was $69,652.
Pending determination of the required contribution by the Bank, an accrual of $145,538 is
reflected in the financial statements as an estimate of the Bank's contribution applicable
to the period from November 24, 1966 to
December 3]. 1967.To
Asian Development Bank
Manila

We have examined the following financial
statements of Asian Development Bank (Ordinary Operations}:

Appendix

Balance Sheet,
December 31, 1967 i

Statement of Income and
Expenses, from November 24, |
1966 to December 31, 1967 I

Cash in Banks and Demand
Obligations, December 31,
1967 lH

Summary of Investments Held,
December 31, 1967 IV

Subscriptions to Capital Stock
and Voting Power, December

31, 1967 Vv
Notes to Financial Statements Vi
New York,

February 8. 1968

2

Our examination was made in accordance
with generally accepted auditing standards,
and accordingly included such tests of the
accounting records and such other auditing
procedures as we considered necessary in
the circumstances.

In our opinion, the accompanying financial
statements present fairly the financial position of the Bank at December 31, 1967 and
the results of its operations from Novernber
24, 1966 to December 31, 1967 in conformity with generally accepted accounting principles consistently applied.

HASKINS & SELLSAPPENDIX A
TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE CONTRIBUTIONS — CONSOLIDATED ACCOUNT (

COMBINED SALANCE SHEET AND STATEMENT OF TRANSACTIONS
FROM NOVEMBER 24, 1966* TO DECEMBER 31, 1967
Expressed in United States Dollars

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

The accompanying notes {Appendix B) are an integral part of this statement,
* Date of Inaugural Meeting of the Boord of Governors

United United
States Kingdom
ASSETS. (Note 2} (Note 3} Total
CONTRIBUTION COMMITMENTS:
Commitments by contributors ........0..., Looe $250,000 $8.672 $258,672
Less funds drawn from contributors ....... F 76.828 76,828
Balances available to be drawn in accordance
with the relevant arrangements ...............5 $173,172 $8,672 $181,844
CASH IN BANK;
Funds drawn from contributors .... Lone bees 76,828 76,828
Less disbursements by Bank ....... sen new EEE we 25,426 25,426
Balance in bank ........... ue SIGUE MEIE BAS VER FOTOS BE 51,402 51,402
TOTAL ssa ¢ og ¢ pug ¢ poe o coe wor x 00 wn § $224,574 $8,672 $233,246
LIABILITIES AND
i UNEXPENDED BALANCES
ACCOUNTS PAYABLE $ $8,472 $ 8,672
| UNEXPENDED BALANCES:
1 Contribution commitments .... is 8 0G RR BaD Y RO 250,000 8,672 258,672
| Less expenditures by Bank
| {including accounts payable) ........... 00.000. 25,426 8,672 34,098
! Balance available for future
| expenditures by Bank ....00..0200.00.....0... $224,574 $ $224,574
| TOTAL cece nes - Lo $224,574 $8,672 $233,246
{
}
i
jAPPENDIX B

 

P wl wed

FROM NOVEMBER 24, 1966* TO DECEMBER 31, 1967
Expressed in United States Dollars

NOTE i

The Board of Directors has established a
consolidated account for the administration
of resources available under Article 19, paragraph | (ii] to provide technical advice and
assistance serving the purposes and coming
within the functions of the Bank. Pending the
adoption of rules and regulations governing
the administration and use of Special Funds,
the term ‘Technical Assistance Contributions” is used to designate such resources.

NOTE 2

The United States agreed to make available as a grant, for procurement in the United States, a technical assistance contribution of up to $250,000. The contribution is

* Date of Inaugural Meeting of the Board of Governors.

to be made by means of periodic transfer
of funds to the Bank as needed, to be utilized
for specitied kinds of technical assistance
obligations incurred by it through December
31, 1968, unless the parties agree to extend
this date.

NOTE 3

The United Kingdom declared its willingness to consider requests for contributions to
finance technical assistance projects, and under arrangements made on the basis of this
declaration authorized the Bank to claim reimbursement of $8.672 for the cost of a consultant's participation in the Bank's Technical
Assistance Mission to Indonesia.Ab

AYER EARL LIRE DE AIG
OPINION CF INDEPEND

To
Asian Development Bank
Manila

We have examined the following financial
statements of Asian Development Bank (Technical Assistance Contributions —— Consolidated Account}:

Appendix

Combined Balance Sheet and

Statement of Transactions

from November 24, 1966

to December 31, 1967 A
Notes to Combined Balance

Sheet and Statement of

Transactions B

Our examination was made in accordance
with generally accepted auditing standards,

New York,
February 8, 1968

and accordingly included such tests of the
accounting records and such other auditing
procedures as we considered necessary in
the circurnstances.

In our opinion, the accompanying financial statements present fairly the financial position of Asian Development Bank (Technical
Assistance Contributions — Consolidated
Account} at December 31, 1967 and its related transactions from November 24, 1966
to December 31, 1967 in conformity with
generally accepted accounting principles consistently applied.

HASKINS & SELLSay

APPENDIX 2

 

For the Financial Year 1968

 

Vi.

Financial Year

1968 Budget
BOARD OF GOVERNORS $ 46,000
BOARD OF DIRECTORS 760,000
Salaries $ 450,000
Benefits 110,000
Travel 200,000
STAFF 3,710,200
Salaries 1,649,000
Benefits 498,600
Travel 853,400
Consultants 675,200
Representation 34,000
OTHER ADMINISTRATIVE
EXPENSES 649,200
Fees & Compensation 132,900
Communications 70,600
Office Occupancy 47,000
Publications & Printing 113,000
Expendable Supplies 81,900
Furniture & Equipment 153,700
Miscellaneous 50,100
CONTINGENCY _ 50,000
Sub-Total {I - V} $5,215,400
SERVICES TO MEMBER COUNTRIES $ 686,400
Project Identification
Missions and other Loan-Related
Missions 400,400
Advisory Missions and other
Technical Assistance Missions 286,000
TOTAL $5,901 800

i Because of reclassification of budgetary items in the 1968 Budget, the increases
indicate those over the corresponding 1967 Budget amounts as rearranged.

$

Increase Over

1967 Budget

$ 45,000

95,500
75,800
19,700

|,727,800
746,200
240,700
245,700
489,000
6,000

261,100
(117,400)!
20,000
2,000
60,000
( 23,200}
( 26,800}!
{ 11,700}?

40,000

$2,169,200

$ 642,500
400,400
242,100

$2,811,700Resolution

oo

Number
|

SN oD

iS
16

APPENDIX 3

D

Whe a he!

re
fee

  
 
  

fe

Subject

Acknowledgment of assistance given by the United
Nations, other International Organizations and Member Governments

Rules of Procedure of Board .of Governors

By-Laws of the Bank

Increases in Subscriptions of Four Regional Members and Admission of Indonesia to Membership of
the Bank

Interim Administrative Arrangements

Procedures for Election of Directors

Election of President

Draft Agreement and Exchange of Notes between
the Bank and the Government of the Philippines regarding the Headquarters of the Bank

Commencement of Operations of the Bank

Increase in authorized capital stock

Admission of Switzerland to Membership

lavitation to all Members of ECAFE to join the Bank

Cooperation with other International Organizations
Travel of Bank Personne!

Establishment of Procedures Committee

Date and Place of First Annual Meeting of Board
of Governors

Election of Chairrnan and Vice-Chairmen of First
Annual Meeting

Appreciation

oF

vw ot, 2

Action Taken

{mplemented.

Current.
Current.

Implemented.

implemented.

Directors elected accordingly.

_ Implemented,

\mplemented.

The Bank commenced operations in Manila at its
temporary headquarters on 19 December 1966.

No specific action due.

Switzerland, having completed all the necessary formalities, became a member of the Bank on 31 December 1967.

Letters were sent by the President to the countries
concerned in January 1967 (enclosing the text of
the Resolution}.

Dealt with on Pages 22-25 of this Report.

Dealt with on Page II of this Report.

Implemented.

First Annual Meeting convened at Manila 4 to 6
April 1968.

Impiemented.

Communicated.by.
“£3

 

APPENDIX 4

 

Country
Afghanistan

Australia

Austria
Belgium
Cambodia

Canada

Ceylon

China, Republic of

Denmark
Finland

Germany, Federal
Republic of

India

Indonesia

Italy

Japan

Korea, Republic of

Channel

Ministry of Planning Kabul

Secretary
Commonwealth Treasury
Canberra

Bundesministerium fuer Finanzen
Wien

Minister of Finance
Brussels

National Bank of Cambodia
Phnom-Penh

Department of Finance
Ottawa

Permanent Secretary fo the Ministry
of Planning and Economic Affairs
Colombo

Governor
The Central Bank of China
Taiwan, Taipei

Ministry for Foreign Affairs
Copenhagen

Ministry for Foreign Affairs

Helsinki

Bundesminisierium fuer Wirtschaft
Bonn

Secretary to the Government of
India

Ministry of Finance:

Department of Economic Affairs
New Delhi

Department of Finance
Diakarta

Direzione Generale de! Tesoro
{.R.F.E.

Ministero del Tesoro

Rome

Minister of Finance
Government of Japan
c/o Embassy of Japan
Manila, Philippines

Governor
Bank of Korea
Seoul

Country

Laos

Malaysia
Nepal
Netherlands

New Zealand

Norway

Pakistan

Philippines

Singapore

Sweden

Switzerland

Thailand
United Kingdom
United States

Viet-Nam,
Republic of

Western Samoa

Channel
National Bank of Laos
Vientiane

Secretary to the Treasury
The Treasury
Kuala Lumpur

Secretary

Ministry of Finance
Kathmandu

Ministerie van Financien
The Hague

Secretary of External Affairs
Wellington

Royal Ministry of Commerce
and Shipping

Foreign Exchange Department
Oslo

Ministry of Finence
Government of Pakistan
Islamabad

Department of Foreign Affairs
Manila

Permanent Secretary
(Economic Development}
Ministry of Finance
Singapore

Sveriges Riksbank
Helgeandsholmen
Stockholm

Département fédéral de l'économie .
publique

Division du Commerce
Palais fédéral

Berne

Ministry of Finance
Bangkok

Ministry of Overseas Development
London

Secretary of the Treasury
Washington, D.C.

Governor
Nationa! Bank of Viet-Nam
Saigon

Secretary io the Government
Government of Western Samoa
ApiaQ

APPENDIX 5

Country
Afghanistan

Australia

Austria

Belgium

Cambodia

Canada

Ceylon

China, Republic of

Denmark

Finland

Germany, Federal
Republic of

India

Indonesia

ltaly

Japan

Korea, Republic of

c
eT
x
=

TORIES

we 3h

Depository

Da Afghanistan Bank
Kabul :

Reserve Bank of Australia
Sydney

Oesterreichische Nationalbank
ien

National Bank of Belgium
Brussels

Banque Nationale du Cambodge
Phnom-Penh

Bank of Canada
Ottawa

Central Bank of Ceylon

Colombo

The Central Bank of China

Taiwan, Taipeh

Danmarks National Bank
Copenhagen

Suomen Pankki—Finlands Bank
Helsinki

Deutsche Bundesbank
Frankfurt a.M.

Reserve Bank of India
Bombay

Bank Negara Indonesia
Djakarta

Banca d'Italia
Rome

Bank of Japan
Tokyo

Bank of Korea
Seoul

Country

Laos

Malaysia
Nepal
Netherlands
New Zealand
Norway
Pakistan
Philippines

Singapore

Sweden
Switzerland
Thailand

United Kingdom
United States
VietNam,

Republic of

Western Samoa

Depository
Banque Nationale du Laos
Vientiane

Bank Negara Malaysia
Kuala Lumpur

Nepal Rastra Bank
Kathmandu

De Nederlandsche Bank N.Y.
Amsterdam

Reserve Bank of New Zealand
Wellington

Norges Bank
slo

State Bank of Pakistan
Karachi

Central Bank of the Philippines

anila

The Accountant General
Accountant General's Department
5th Foor, Fullerton Building
Singapore

Sveriges Riksbank {Bank of Sweden}
Stockholm

Banque Nationale Suisse
Zurich

Bank of Thailand
Bangkok

Bank of England

Lendon

Federal Reserve Bank of New York
New York

Bangue Nationale du Viet-Nam
Saigon

Bank of Western Samoa
Apia1
i

§

APPENDIX 6

Country
AFGHANISTAN

AUSTRALIA
AUSTRIA

BELGIUM

CAMBODIA

CANADA
CEYLON

CHINA, Republic of
DENMARK
FINLAND
GERMANY, Federal

Republic of

INDIA

\Syceeeded Dr. Abdul Rahim in August 1967
2Succeeded Mr. Pekka Malinen in September 1967
succeeded Mr. Werner Dollinger in January 1967

 

Mr. EDUARDO Z. ROMUALDEZ
(Philippines}
Chairman

Mr. BONG KYUN SUH
{Korea}
Vice-Chairman

Mr. N. WIMALASENA
{Ceylon}

Vice-Chairman

Governor

Dr. Abdul Hakim Tabibit
Ambassador to Japan

The Ri Hon. William McMahon, M.P.
Treasurer

Mr. Wolfgang Schmitz
Federal Minister of Finance

Mr. Robert Paul Henrion
Minister of Finance

Mr. Son Sann, Vice Prime Minister and
Governor, National Bank of Cambodia

Mr. Mitchell Sharp

Minister of Finance

Mr. N. Wimalasena
Parliamentary Secretary *
Ministry of Finance

Mr. Peh-Yuan Hsu
Governor, Central Bank of China

Mr. Jens Christensen
Ministry of Foreign Affairs

Mr. Tankmar Horn?
Head, Commercial Department
Foreign Ministry

Mr. Hans Juergen Wischnewski?
Federal Minister for Economic Cooperation

Mr. Morarji R. Desai®
Deputy Prime Minister
and Minister of Finance

Alternate

Mr. Abdul Wahab Haider
Deputy Minister of Planning

Mr, F. C. Pryor
First Assistant Secretary
Commonwealth Treasury

Dr. Rudolf Baumann
Ambassador Extraordinary and
Plenipotentiary to Thailand

Mr. M. D'Haeze
Director-General
Treasury & Public’ Debt
Administration

Ministry ot Finance

Mr. Srey Pong
Ministry of Finance

Mr. M. F, Strong
Director-General
External Aid Office

Mr. H. E. Tennekooa
Ambassador Extraordinary and
Plenipotentiary to Japan

Mr. Chun Heng Te
Political Vice Minister
Ministry of Finance

Mr. Torben Busck-Neilsen

Ambassador Extraordinary and
Plenipotentiary to Japan

Mr. Eero Asp
Managing Director
Finnish Export Credit Ltd.

Mr. Fritz Neei#

Under Secretary

Federa! Ministry of Economics

Dr. I. G. Patelé

Special Secretary to the Government

of India, Ministry of Finance, Department
of Economic Affairs

# Succeded Mr. Wolfram Langer in Aprii 1967
3 Succeeded Mr. Sachindre Chaudhuri in March 1967
€ Succeeded Mr. S. Jagannathan in January 196852

Country,
INDONESIA

ITALY

JAPAN

KOREA, Republic of

LAOS

MALAYSIA

NEPAL

NETHERLANDS

NEW ZEALAND
NORWAY

PAKISTAN

PHILIPPINES

SINGAPORE

Governor

Dr. Frans Seda

Minister of Finance

Mr. Guido Carli
Governor, Bank of Haly

Mr. Mikio Mizuta
Minister of Finance

iMr. Bong Kyun Suh
Minister of Finance

Mr. Sisouk Na Champassak

Minister of Finance

Tun Tan Siew Sin
Minister of Finance

Dr. Bhekh Bahadur Thapa?
Secretary of Finance

Prof. Dr. H. J. Witteveen*
Minister of Finance

Mr. R. D. Muldoon®

Minister of Finance

Mr. Kaare Willoch
Minister of Commerce and Shipping

Mr. N. M. Uquaili
Minister of Finance

Mr. Eduardo 7. Romualdez
Secretary of Finance

Dr. Goh Keng Swee?
Minister of Finance

1 Succeeded Mr. Se Ryun Kim in December 1967

3 Succeeded Mr. Yadav Prasad Plant in November 1967
3 Succeeded Mr, Kumarmani A, Dikshit in November 1967
*Succeeded Prof, Dr, J. Zijistra in April 1967

Alfernate

Mr. Radius Prawiro
Governor
Bank Indonesia

Mr, Gaetano Stammati
General Manager and Cabinet
Head

Ministry of Treasury

Mr, Makoto Usami
Governor

Bank of Japan
Mr. Jin Soo Suh?

Governor
Bank of Korea

Mr. Nikorn Phankongsy
Secretary-General
National Bank of Laos

Mr. Ismael Bin Mohamed Ali
Governor
Bank Negera Malaysia

Mr. Kalyan Bikram Adhikary?
Acting Secretary
Ministry of Commerce and {ndusiry

Mr. G, J. Dissevelt
Ambassador Extraordinary and
Plenipotentiary to the Philippines

Mr. N. V. Lough
Assistant Secretary to the Treasury

Mr, Axel Moltke-Hansen®
Ambassador fo the Philippines

Mr. lL. A. Khan, SQA, CSP
Secretary

Economic Affairs Division
Islamabad

Mr. Gregorio Licares

Chairman

Board of Governors

Development Bank of the Philippines

Mr. Sim Kee Boon®
Permanent Secretary
Economic Development Division
Ministry of Finance

5 Succeeded Mr. H.R. Lake in May 1967

S Succeeded Mr. Knut Thomessen in April 1967
Succeeded Mr. Lim Kim San in August 1967
2 Succeeded Mr. Hon Sui Sen in January 1968oy

«a?

SWEDEN

SWITZERLAND*

THAILAND

UNITED KINGDOM
OF GREAT BRITAIN
AND NORTHERN
IRELAND

UNITED STATES
OF AMERICA
VIET-NAM, Republic of

WESTERN SAMOA

*Not yet appointed.

Mr. G. Straeng
Minister of Finance

Dr. Serm Vinicchayakul
Minister of Finance

Mr. Reginald Prentice?
M.P., Minister of Overseas Development

Mr. Henry H. Fowler

Secretary of the Treasury

Mr. Nguyen Huu Hanh
Governor, National Bank of Viet-Nam

Mr. G. F. D. Betham, O.8.E.
Minister of Finance

1 Succeeded Mr. Arthur Bottomley, O.B.E,, M.P. in August 1967

Mr. H. Wickman
Permanent Under Secretary of Finance

Mr. Sommai Hoontrakool
Director

Assistant to the Governor of the
Bank of Thailand

Mr, R. H. Belcher
Under Secretary
Ministry of Overseas Development

Mr. William S$. Gaud
Administrator
Agency for International Development

Mr. Nguyen Van Dong
Deputy Governor
National Bank of Viet-Nam

Mc. Keranita Enari
Prime Minister's Office54

APPENDIX 7
BOARD OF DIRECTOR

{As of 31 December 1967}

 

Director Alternate
Helmut Abramowski Denis Forthomme
Cornelio Balmaceda Zahiruddin Ahrned
Byung Kyu Chun Buu Hoan
Masaru Fukuda Shoshi Nakazawa (Temp.]
J. M. Garland F, R. Dalrymple
B. Kharmawan Vv. M. Peries
Lim Taik Choon! Chanchai Leetavorn
PL V. R. Rao J. R. Hiremath?
W. K. Wardroper R. W. H. du Boulay®
Bernard Zagorin Herman H. Barger

“in order of voting strength

1 Succeeded Ng Kam Poh in May 1967

2 Succeeded G. J. Malik in November 1967
FSucceeded Leslie Minford in September 1967

Countries Represented*

Germany, Federal Republic of
ltaly

Netherlands

Austria

Belgium

Philippines
Pakistan

Korea, Republic of
China, Republic of
Viet-Nam, Republic of

Japan
Australia

Indonesia
Afghanistan
Cambodia
Ceylon
Laos

Nepal

New Zealand
Malaysia
Thailand
Singapore
Western Samoa

India

United Kingdom
Canada
Denmark

Finland

Norway

Sweden

United States

¢APPENDIX 8

oe

 

Takeshi Watanabe ......

C. S. Krishna Moorthi ...

Douglas C. Gunesekera .......

Timothy B. Atkeson ..........

Howard Farrelly ........

Koji Suzuki ...-....--..

Sam-Chung Hsieh .......-
George Rosen

Masao Fujioka

Raymond B. Lyon .......
S. M. A. Kazmi ....
Edgar Plan ....... w tg 3
P.S. Hariharan ......

Carl J. Lemvig-Fog ......

in
C7

wees President

sures Vice President

Secretary

General Counsel

cr Director, Operations Department

Be 2 Deputy Director

. Director, Economic and Technical Assistance Department
Deputy Director

. Director, Administration Department

. Deputy Director

Treasurer

2% Deputy Treasurer and Financial Adviser
.... Chie? Information Officer

.... tvternal Auditorin
on

Vay, Bd

APPENDIX 9

   

    

PRESIDENT

VICE-PRESIDENT

          
   

     

     

   

  

OPERATIONS
DEPARTMENT

OFFICE OF THE
SECRETARY

ECONOMIC AND
TECHNICAL
ASSISTANCE

DEPARTMENT

OFFICE OF THE
GENERAL
COUNSEL

OFFICE OF THE
TREASURER

ADMINISTRATION
DEPARTMENT

     
   

    

     

     
   
    
    

INFORMATION
OFFICE

   
 

INTERNAL
AUDITORAPPENDIX 10

 
 
 

é

Mea

Dr. Gamani Corea
Permanent Secretary to the

Ministry of Planning
Ceylon

Mr. E. K. Fisk

Australian National University

Canberra, Australia

Mr. Arthur Gaitskell, C.M.G.
Bicknoller, Taunton
Somerset, England

Mr. M. L. Xujati Kambhu
Deputy Minister
Ministry of National
Development,

Bangkok, Thailand

 

CONSULTATIVE COMMITTEE

Professor Kazushi Ohkawa
Economic Research Institute
Hitotsubashi University
Japan

Mr. Takekazu Ogura
President

Asian Economic Affairs
Research Institute
Tokyo, Japan

Mr. Soesilo Prakoso

Deputy Regional Representative
FAO Regional Office

Bangkok, Thailand

Professor T. W. Schultz
Chairman, Department of
Economics

"University of Chicago

Chicago, U.S.A.

Dr. T. H. Shen

Chairman, Joint Commission on
Rural Reconstruction

Taipei, China

Dr. D. L. Umali

Undersecretary of the Department

- of Agriculture & Natural Resources

Philippines

Professor Dr. Hans Wilbrandt
Georg-August-Universitaet
Goettingen, Germany

Mr. S. Takahashi

International Bank for Reconstruction and Development

Washington D.C., U.S.A.

(Observer)

TECHNICAL AND ECONOMIC SURVEY TEAM

Dr. Nam Kyu Chun (Team Leader]
Vice President

Nationa! Agricultural Cooperative Federation

Seoul, Korea ,

Dr. W, David Hopper
(Deputy Team Leader}
Agricuttural Economist
The Rockefeller Foundation
New Delhi, India

Mr. Chih Ghen
Asian Development Bank
Philippines

Dr. Jose A. Eusebio

’ Department of Animal Husbandry

College of Agriculture
University of the Philippines
Leguna, Philippines

Mr. Toshihiro Kano
Asian Development Bank
Philippines

Mr. Bhakdi Lusanandana

Acting Chief. Technical Division
Rice Depariment

Ministry of Agriculture

Thailand

Dr. T. Matsushita

Special Assistant to Chief
Fisheries Agency

Government of Japan

Mr. Homma {Alternate to Mr.
Matsushita]

Research Planning Officer
Fisheries Agency

Government of Japan

Dr. P. K. Mukherjee

Chief, Programme Evaluation
Organization

Planning Commission
Government of India

Mr. B. Natapermadi
Asian Development Bank
Philippines

Dr. Shao-er Ong

FAO Regional Agricultural
Officer (Farm Management}
for Asia and the Far East
Bangkok, Thailand

Mr. Kunio Takase
Asian Development Bank
Philippines

Mr. J. Turbang

FAO Regional Forestry Officer
for Asia and the Far East
Bangkok, Thailand

Mr. Dietrich Von Hegel

Chief Conservator of Forestry
Federal Ministry of Agriculture
Germany

Dr. Noboru Yamada

Acting Director

Ceniral Agricultural Experiment
Station Konosu

Ministry of Agriculture and
Forestry

Japan

Mr. Shigeo Yamamoto
Asian Development Bank
Philippines

Dr. Burton Ofate
Asian Developmen? Bank
Philippines

Mr. Pho Ba Quan

Asian Development Bank
Philippines. .5 Big # gee