The Asian Development Bank, a multilateral development finance institution whose capital stock was owned by
56 member countries” as of end-1995, is engaged in promoting the economic and social progress of its developing
member countries in the Asian and Pacific region.

The Bank started functioning in December 1966 with its
Headquarters in Manila, Philippines. lt is owned by the
governments of 40 countries from the region and 16 countries from outside the region.

In 29 years of operations, the Bank has become a major
catalyst in promoting the development of the most populous
and fastest-growing region in the world today. The Bank’s
principal functions are: (i) to make loans and equity investments for the economic and social advancement of developing member countries; (ii) to provide technical assistance for
the preparation and execution of development projects and
programs and advisory services; (iii) to promote investment
of public and private capital for development purposes; and
(iv) to respond to requests for assistance in coordinating
development policies and plans of developing member countries. In its operations, the Bank is also required to give
special attention to the needs of the smaller or less developed
countries and give priority to regional, subregional and national projects and programs, which will contribute to the
harmonious economic growth of the region as a whole and
promote regional cooperation.

The financial resources of the Bank consist of ordinary
capital resources, comprising subscribed capital, reserves
and funds raised through borrowings; and Special Funds,
comprising contributions made by member countries, accumulated net income and amounts previously set aside from
the paid-in capital. Loans from ordinary capital resources
on nonconcessional terms account for 73.5% of cumulative
Bank lending. Such loans are generally made to member
countries which have attained a somewhat higher level of
economic development. Loans from the Asian Development Fund are made on highly concessional terms and
almost exclusively to the poorest borrowing countries.

The Bank has borrowed funds for its ordinary operations
from the capital markets of Asia, Europe, the Middle East
and United States as well as international capital markets,
and from certain member countries’ central banks. The
Bank’s callable capital, which at the end of 1995 accounted
for about 92% of its subscribed capital, backs its borrowings
in the capital markets.

 

The Asian Development Bank

Main reception
lobby at the ADB
Headquarters in
Manila, Philippines.

  

The Bank's operations cover a wide spectrum of social
and economic development. Its medium-term strategy has
formally adopted the objectives of economic growth, poverly reduction, improving the status of women, population
planning and environmental protection. These objectives
ate supported by specific thematic priorities, such as encouragement of the private sector, strengthening of public
sector management capacity, human development and
natural resource management. Most Bank financing is designed to support specific projects. However, the Bank also
provides program, sector and multiproject loans.

The Bank actively pursues cofinancing activities with
official as well as commercial and export credit sources. The
Bank has also entered into equity investment operations.

The Bank's highest policy-making body is its Board of
Governors, which meets annually. The direction of the
Bank's general operations is the responsibility of the Board
of Directors — composed of 12 Directors (each with an
Alternate) — eight representing regional countries and four
representing nonregional countries. The Board of Governors
conducts an election for the Board of Directors every two
years,

The President of the Bank is elected by the Board of
Governors for a term of five years, and may be reelected.
The President is Chairperson of the Board of Directors and,
under the Board's direction, conducts the business of the
Bank. The President is responsible for the organization,
appointment and dismissal of officers and staff in accordance with regulations adopted by the Board of Directors. In
this, the President is assisted by three Vice-Presidents, who
are appointed by the Board of Directors on the recommendation of the President.

The Bank bas 25 departments and offices at Headquarters, including the offices of Managernent. Also at the
Headquarters are a Private Sector Group and a Cofinancing
Division. In addition, the Bank has five Resident Missions,
one each in Dhaka (Bangladesh), New Delhi (India), Jakarta
(Indonesia), Kathmandu (Nepal) and Islamabad (Pakistan); a
Regional Mission for the South Pacific based in Port Vila,
Vanuatu; and a North American Representative Office
based in Washington D.C., USA. At the end of 1995, the
Bank had 642 professional staff and 1,278 supporting
staff.

 

* Theterm "country," as used in the context of the Bank, refers to members
of the Bank and does not imply any view on the part of the Bank asto their
sovereignty or independent status.Asian

Development
Bank

Annual Report 1995

COVER: This year's cover highlights the Bank's concern for social sector
development in its developing member countries, alongside their economic
growth. Photos: (top) children of beneficiaries of the Irrigation and Flood
Protection Rehabilitation Project in Viet Nam; (middle) students at a primary
schoal in Cambodia, restored under the Special Rehabilitation Assistance Project;
and (bottom) two of the beneficiaries of the Second Health and Population
Project in Indonesia. .

‘

This Report is printed on recycled paper.ASIA

 

  
 
 
  
    
 
  
 
  
  

‘Office ‘of thé President

* Déaie Mes Chia

In agoordan with?
‘Agreethant of the Asian
“Hon 13..of jts Byekaws; 1 sub Be {
Goverhors the eniclosed Annual Report the Bank for a4
995, ‘ineluding a sdparate report on:the activities of ..
“the Special Funds of the Bank, which has been prepared .
curider the ditectioh of the Board of Direc “s
2) Annual Report also indludes the ‘firiancial
! rere in Section 15 of the a rLaws,

 

 

. -MITSUO SATO

 

 
   
   
   

 

   

President and

Chairman’ of ‘the »

Beard of Directors: .

Ba * sean THE BOARD OF DIRECTORS
(As of 31 December 1995)
President and Chairman of the
Board of Directors
Mitsuo Sato

Directors Alternate Directors
Daniel Besson Hermann Escher
VicenteR. Jayme A.B. Soomro
Shigeo Kashiwagi Soichi Yoshimura
Yong-Keun Lee Lloyd Fernando
LiRuogu Zhou Yuequn
Peter McCawley John Russell
Syed Muhamad Abdul Kadir Thein AungLwin
dulianH. Payne Pieter C. Verheugd
Soegito Sastramidjojo Colin Pratt
Hans-Jurgen Siryk John Millett
K. Venkatesan Kamaluddin Siddiqui
Linda Tsao Yang N. Cinnamon DomsifeTop view of the courtyard
at the ADB Headquarters.

 

 

 

| MEMBER COUNTRIES WITH CAPITAL STOCK AND VOTING POWER

31 December 1995

 

SUBSCRIBED VOTING SUBSCRIBED VOTING

 

 

 

 

 

CAPITAL POWER CAPITAL POWER
MEMBERS Per Cent Per Cent MEMBERS Per Cent Per Cent
of Total of Total of Total _ of Total
REGIONAL Thailand 1.662 1.687
Afghanistan 0.041 0.390 Tonga 0.002 0.359
Australia 7.065 6.009 Tuvalu 0,001 0.358
Bangladesh 1.247 1.354 Uabekistan 0.822 1.015
Bhutan 0.004 0.360 Vanuatu 0,004 9.360
Cambodia 0.030 0.381 Viet Nam 0.417 0.691
China, People’s Rep. of 7.868 6.651 Western Samoa 0.002 0,359
Cook Islands 0.002 0.358
Fiji 0.042 0.390 i 5
HongKong 0665 0.889 Subtotal Regional 67.492 68.279
India 7.730 6.541
Indonesia 3.325 3.017 NONREGIONAL ‘
Japan 19.055 15.601 Austria s 0.415 0.690
Kazakhstan 0.492 0.751 Belgium 0.208 0.523
Kiribati . 0.002 0.359 Canada 6.387 5.467
Korea, Rep. of 6.151 5.278 Denmark 0.415 0.690
Kyrgyz Republic 0.183 0.503 Finland 0.415 0.690
Lao PDR 0.008 0.364 France 2.842 2.631
Malaysia 3.325 : 3.017 Germany 5.282 4,583
Maldives . 0.005 0.361 Italy 1.103 1.240
Marshall Islands 0.002 0.358 Netherlands . 1.252 1.359
Micronesia, Fed. States of 9.005 0.361 Norway 0.415 0.690
Mongolia 0.009. 0.364 Spain 0.208 0.523
Myanmar 0.332 0.623 Sweden 0.415 0.690
Nauru 0.002 0.359 Switzerland 0.713 0.927
Nepal . 0.090 0.429 _ Turkey 0.415 0.690
New Zealand 0.938 1.107 United Kingdom 2.494 2.352
Pakistan 2.660 2.485 United States 9,528 7.979
Papua New Guinea 0.057 0.403 :
oie one ween Subtotal Nonregional 32.508 31.721
Solomon Islands 0.004 0.360
Sri Lanka 0.708 0.924 TOTAL 100.000 100.000
Taipei,China 0.665 0.889 SS

 

Note: Figures may not add due to rounding. Percentage of shareholding will fluctuate as member countries subscribe to the Fourth General Capital
Increase (GCI IV). For tables with fuller details, see pages 158 and 159.he

a eS

Glossary

ADF Asian Development Fund, the Bank's soft lending window.

BOO Build-Operate-Own, a mechanism by which private investors build, operate and continue to own
infrastructure projects.

BOT Build-Operate-Transfer, a mechanism by which private investors build and operate infrastructure
projects and then transfer them to the government after a period of time.

CFS Complementary Financing Scheme, under which two separate loans are extended to a DMC: one
exclusively from the Bank and the other spectally structured to meet commercial lender requirements. Any
default on a CFS loan is a default on the Bank.

Credit Line Government-guaranteed loan provided to selected financial intermediaries in DMCs for onlending to small
and medium-sized private enterprises.

DFI Development Finance Institution, The Bank uses such institutions in its DMCs as vehicles to finance small
to medium projects in the private sector.

DMC Developing Member Country of the Bank, as opposed to developed country members.

GDP Gross Domestic Product, the total value of a country’s goods and services produced during a specified
period, excluding external accounts.

GNP Gross National Product, the toial value of a country’s goods and services produced during a specific period
and combining domestic and external accounts.

JSF Japan Special Fund, established in March 1988 and administered by the Bank to help DMCs restructure
their economies and broaden the scope for new investments by recycling funds, and to support DMCs’
efforts toward industrialization, natural and human resource development and technology transfer.

NIE Newly Industrializing Economy. Among the Bank's DMCs, the term refers to Hong Kong, Republic of
Korea, Singapore and Taipei,China.

NGO Non-Governmental Organization. NGOs work as special interest groups at all levels.

OCR Ordinary Capital Resources, the interest-bearing window for the Bank’s ordinary lending operations.

PCR Project Completion Report, which certifies the completion of a Bank project.

PPAR Project Performance Audit Report.

Project Loan Loan provided to finance specific projects.

Program Loan Loan provided to support DMCs' efforts to improve the policy, institutional and investment environment

Sector Loan
TASF

WID

of sector development. Helps meet short-term costs that policy adjustments entail,

Loan provided to develop a specific sector or subsector. Finances a large number of subprojects in a single
sector or subsector.

Technical Assistance Special Fund, the principal vehicle of technical assistance grants from the Bank’s own
resources.

Women in Development, a crosscutting concern aimed at enhancing the economic status of women,
identified as one of the major strategic objectives of the Bank.Contents

Overview

The Board of Directors

Economies in Transition: the Asian Experience
Economic Developments in DMCs

Operational Priorities and Policies
Strategic Planning and Operational Agenda
New Policy Initiatives
Social Dimensions
Social Infrastructure
Environmental Policies and Priorities
Cooperation with NGOs
Improving Project Quality
Support for Capacity Building and Governance
Policy Support :
Participatory Approaches to Development

Operations 
Reorganization and Its Impact on Operations
Project Approvals

Technical Assistance

Review of Operations

_ Environmental Activities

Private Sector Activities

Law and Development

Cofinancing and Guarantee Operations

.. Bank’s Role in Resource Transfer

Economic Research and Development Studies

Country Highlights
‘dinary Capital Resources and Financial Management

ipecial Funds

Asian Development Fund
Technical Assistance Special Fund
Japan Special Fund

Project and Program Administration
Postevaluation and Internal Audit

Administration

117

123
123
125
126

127
131
141Overview

THE BANK IN 1995

] N LINE with its development objectives and priorities, the Bank
adopted a number of new policies in 1995 to further enhance the quality
and su! ity of its operations. These included policies on:
nce. to facilitate developing member countries’ (DMCs) efforts

to be more accountable, participatory, predictable and transparent in
their development activities; (i involuntary resettlemento strengthen the
e issue of people displaced by Bank projects; and

pection function to establish a grievance procedure in case there
are allegations of violation of Bank operational policies and procedures in

the formulation and implementation of public sector projects.

   

 

 

 

 

  
 

, \d energy sectors. Anew Gofinanciniy age Guarant ee Loan Approvals
strategy was endorsed to intensify the Bank's catalytic role in private—~ Silos
resource mobilization. 8,000r eat Direct Private Sector Loans
Operationally, the full impact of the Bank’s internal reorganization, int Credit Lines
which came into effect in January, began to be felt, with a distinct ay oe Bae beans
sharpening of the country focus. 6,000: Project Loans

  

During the year, a third Central Asian republic, Uzbekistan, became
the 56th member of the Bank. This underlined the increasing role of the
Bank in supporting former centrally planned economies in their transition
to an open, market-oriented system.

The 28th Annual Meeting of the Bank’s Board of Governors was
held in Auckland, New Zealand, from 3 to 5 May 1995.

Operations 0

1990 1991 i992 1993 1994 1995

Of the total approvals of $5,614 million in 1995, loans amounted
to $5,504 million and equity investments $110 million. The total
represented a 50% increase from 1994,

Of the lending total, government and government-guaranteed
loans accounted for $5,418 million and direct private sector loans
amounted to $87 million. Loans from ordinary.capital resources (OCR)
totalled $4,049 million and those from the concessionary Asian
Development Fund (ADEY $1,455 Thijflion.

By lending modality, Project loans amounted to $3,556 million, or
64.6% of the total. Sector loans accounted for $1,081 million to take a
20% share; program loans accounted for $575 million, or 10%; credit !
lines totalled $203 million, or 4%; direct private sector loans
$87 million, or 1.5%; and engineering loans $3.2 million, or 0.1%.

By the end of 1995, the Bank had approved public and private

 

he Bank-funded Rural Women Employment Creation Project in Bangladesh has created
ew livelihood opportunities for the poor.ANNUAL REPORT 1995

Loan Approvals: Three-Year Moving Averages, 1968-1970 —1993-1995
(% Share by Sector)

Per Cent
100

   
 
    

Social Infrastructure
90

80

70

60

50

40

30

 

20

  

 
      
 
   

 

 

 

 

. i culttire and-Agro-industry ‘ a % ,
10 + Fog : i
: BH
7 71 #72 «73 #74 #75 #176 #77 «+78 #%79 80 81 82 8 B84 8 86 87 8B 8 90 SM 92 93 94 95 q
(1968-1970 average) (1993-1995 average) Fi
‘
Number of Loan Projects and sector loans for 1,294 projects in 34 DMCs since its inception,
Programs* - During the year, technical assistance grants were approved for
297 projects, amounting to $145 million. :
Number
u

Cofinancing arranged by the Bank during the year amounted to
Of this total, $2,266 million came from official sources
and $216 million from commercial sources.

Net transfer of resources from the Bank to DMCs (disbursements plus equity investments, minus capital repayments, payments of
interest and other charges) decreased by 28% to $794 million.

Loan disbursements amounted to $3,587 million, of which
$2,442 million was from OCR and $1,145 million from ADF.

A total of 70 projects were completed during the year, bringing the
cumulative total number of completed projects to 973.

Contracts totalling $3,438 million were awarded during the year
by executing agencies in DMCs for consulting services, procurement of
goods and services, and civil works.

The postevaluation exercise during the year included 20 project a
performance audit reports, four technical assistance performance audit
reports, three impact evaluation studies, five reevaluation studies and
two special studies. .

Borrowings undertaken by the Bank during the year raised a total
of $1,715 million: The average maturity of the borrowings was
9,9 years, The after-swap cost of the fixed-rate liabilities declined to
4.32% from 5.47% in 1994.

80

 

60

 

20

lt Is 4
1990 1991 1992 1993 1994-1995
* Including private sector.Scecreprisescec sate

 

OVERVIEW

 

As of end-December 1995, the Bank's OCR investments
amounted to the equivalent of $6,069 million. The portfolio was
denominated in 23 currencies. The realized rate of return on these
investments was 6.9%.

Steps were initiated during the year for a further ADF replenishment (ADF VII). An informal consuliation with ADF donors was held in
Auckland, New Zealand, on 2 May as an initial step. This was followed by
a meeting of current and potential donors in Amsterdam, Netherlands, on
13-14 Novernber to initiate discussions on the scope, issues and timetable
of the negotiations. .

ADF investments at the end of 1995 amounted to $418 million.
Of the portfolio, 17% was held in securities issued or guaranteed by
governments of member countries. The rest was invested in deposits and
other bank instruments in member countries. The return on ADF invest
ments over the year was 5.7%. The portfolio was denominated in 18
currencies,

The Bank’s net income for 1995 was $660 million.

 

Loan Disbursements

$ Million
5,000; 88 Private Sector Loan Disbursements
i set Sector Loan Disbursements
| Program Loan Disbursements
Project Loan Disbursements
4,000

| 88,3587

      
  

0 Si 2 ms
1990 1991 1992-1993 19941995

Technical Assistance Grants*

   

1990 «19911992, 1993 1994 1995
Including tegiona! activites.

  

1995 Loans by Category
Project Loons

Sector Loans

Program Loans
Credit Lines

Direct Private
Loans

0 500 1,000 1,500 2,090 2,500 3,000 3,500 4,000
$ MillionThe Record

(Amounts in $ meat

     
 
    

OPERATIONAL ACTIVITIES
TOTAL LENDING (Amount):
. Number, of Projects’.
OCR Loahs (Aiiount) ~
Number of Loatis.
gee Disbursements: : #22.
L ‘ ADF Loans (Amount)
i Number of Loans +”
Disbursements 3
' A. Government & Governniet
Guaranteed Loang:(Amount)
Number of Projects": i 4
OCR Loans (Amouitit). wk - 38) 466.6
‘Nutriber of Loans : # 684
Disbutsermerits . 24,2004
ADF Loans (Amount) Lo, 174798 ©
Number of Loans : S67 ‘
Disbursements
B. Private Sector Loans? (Ammoui i
Numbér of Projects
OCR Loans (Amount)
Number of Loans
Disbursements
ADF Lozins (Amount) «
Number of Loans
Disbursements "
EQUITY INVESTMENTS? (Amount) 1.) 347.2
Number of Investments 85
EQUITY UNDERWRITING? (Amount) ‘40.5
_ Number of Commitments 6
' TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE® (Amount) 4,316.9
lumber of Projects © 2: 3,749
OFINANCING! (Amount): el ' 24,921.2
lumber of Projects ‘

 
   
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
   

"3,686.5

 

 
   

 

 
   
 
   

 

 
 
 

  

 
   
   
   
   
   
   
 

 

    
     
     
  
   

 
 
  
  
 

  
 
 
 
 

  

RESOURCES

Ordinary Capital Reasuvoee
Authorized Capital (at efid of period)’
Subscribed Capital (at end of periad).:
Borrowings (gross)
Ouistanding Debt (at end of period)
Ordinary Reserve {at end of period)
Special Reserve {at end of pe iod)
Gross Iricome* :
Net Incéine after Appropriation of
Commissions/Guarantee, Fees . .
to Special Reserve’. : . 6,100.8

Special Funds Resources e
Asian Development Fund: * :
Total Resources (at end of period} 2!” 20,166.6

Technical Assistance Special Fund:
Total Resources (at end: of peried)®
dapen Special Fund:
Contributions (at end-of period)

 
  
  

 
   
 

 

 
 
 

   

~LIBA
16,216.5

 
 

  

    
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
 
 

 
 

Cumulative totals.may not add due to
Amounts and numbers: adjusted to
Adjusted to reflect reduced finan
Projects financed from both OCR ai
Comprising technical assistance ‘
_ Adjusted. to reflect chariges
Figured revised to includ:;
:
|
|

   
 

 

The Board of Directors

I N 1995, the Board met 51 times in formal sessions {including
executive sessions) and approved a iotal lending of $5,504 million
($4,049 million from ordinary capital resources and $1,455 million from
the Asian Development Fund) and equity investments of $110 million.
These approvals comprised 72 loan projects (66 government-guaranteed
loan projects and six private sector loan projects) and 11 private sector _
equity invesiments. The Board also approved 297 technical assistance
grants amounting to $145 million. The approved projects focused on
economic growth and poverty reduction, in line with the Bank’s strategic
objectives of emphasizing crosscutting issues. Other goals included
ensuring the sustainability of projects, making greater use of local
expertise and encouraging the transfer of technology.

In addition to its formal meetings, the Board held eight seminars and
informal discussions. A three-day discussion on the Compendiurn of
Country Notes 1995-1997, which summarizes the Bank’s strategy of
operations in developing member countries (DMCs}, provided an
opportunity to review country issues in detail. This was complemented by
discussions on the Bank's Strategy Paper for the Pacific as well as
country operational strategy studies for Maldives, Pakistan and Viet Nam.
The other significant informal discussion was on the Three-Year Rolling
Work Program arid Budget Framework (1996-1998).

Policy Decisions

During 1995, the Board reviewed several major policy initiatives
aimed at increasing the. Bank’s capacity to assist its DMCs and enhancing
the effectiveness of Bank operations (see box).

Financial Policies: In the light of the growing need of DMCs for
capital, the limited volume of official development assistance and the
resulting need for an increased mobilization of private resources, the
Board reviewed the Bank’s cofinancing strategy and guarantee
operations. The Bank's revised cofinancing and guarantee strategy,
together with the recently introduced market-based loan window, puts at
the Bank’s disposal a combination of efficient tools for the delivery of its

‘developmental services.

During the year, the Board also reviewed the Bank's policy of
lending foreign exchange for local currency expenditures on projects.
The review confirmed that, basically, the policies enunciated in 1983
continued to be relevant. However, as the region’s needs for development assistance and external resources had increased, the review found it |
necessary to monitor local cost financing closely. The purpose of such
monitoring is to ensure that excessive use of local cost financing does not |
act as a deterrent to domestic resource mobilization and that such
financing is primarily applied for supporting high-priority projects in
countries confronted with particularly difficult financial constraints.

Besides considering these policies, the Board continued to closely

fe Forestry Sector Project in the Philippines exemplifies the Bank's concern for
paiFGnmental protectin in its developing member countries.ANNUAL REPORT 1995

 

‘The Bank's Policy on Forestry

 

Function:

 

for Private Sector Development

The. Barik's Cofinancing Strategy
Review ‘ofthe ‘Barik’s.,Glararitee
Operations Sebi .
Governance!’ Sound Developmen!
Mariagement.°"s.--"°- oo
Involuntary Resett!
Establishment’ o:

 

 

 

 

monitor the efficient use of the Bank's resources. The Board reviewed
the quarterly financial statements, the Bank’s borrowing program, and
Asian Development Fund resources and lending. It monitored the overall
project administration of the Bank through semiannual Project
Administration and Technica! Assistance Implementation reports.

Operational Policies: The Board approved the policy on
Governance: Sound Development Management. The policy focuses on
the four elements of accountability, participation, predictability and
transparency, and how to promote these elements in the context of the
Bank's operations.

The Board supported the Strategy for the Bank’s Assistance for
Private Sector Development, acknowledging that, if the environment is
conducive, ihe private sector can make a major contribution to development. In addition to creating a suitable environment for private sector
operations within DMCs, the implementation of the strategy will enable
the Bank to effectively apply innovative development finance techniques
and modalities.

In approving the Bank Policy Initiatives for the Energy Sector, the
Board recognized the need for efficient energy supply in DMCs and
emphasized the importance of integrating environmental considerations
closely in all energy sector activities. The policy includes measures to
promote energy efficiency and alternative sources of energy.

The policy on Involuntary Resettlement approved by the Board
addresses an important issue of equity that relates to the impact of
projects on vulnerable groups. At the same time, it highlights problems
that might adversely affect the efficiency of project implementation in
cases where land must be acquired and persons resettled. Successful
resettlement should contribute to improved project quality and impact,
and also promote more equitable development.

The Board policy on the Establishment of an Inspection Function
complements the Bank’s policy on Confidentiality and Disclosure of
Information approved by the Board in 1994. The new policy also
outlines a formal procedure for groups affected by a public sector Bank
project to air grievances if they believe such a project is inconsistent with
Bank policies or procedures. Pursuant to this policy, a Board Inspection
Committee is being set up.

Board Committees

Audit Committee: The Audit Committee of the Board met on 14
occasions. It reviewed 11 Project Performance Audit Reports; three
Impact Evaluation Studies and four Technical Assistance Performance
Audit Reports (see box). The commitiee also reviewed the 1994 Financial Statements with the outside auditors of the Bank, appointed the
outside auditors for 1995 and oversaw the activities of the Office of the
General Auditor.

The committee presented its annual report to the Board of Directors
in June. The report listed 14 thematic issues that the committee felt
needed to be addressed if there was to be an improvement in the
implementation and long-term sustainability of Bank projects. The
committee considered that project implementation issues in general
remained among the more intractable problems. It recommended that: .

  

 

  

sacmncapeeevemaacente gp unsnnintits aieTHE BOARD OF DIRECTORS

 

staff should pay greater atiention to analyses of past performance as a
means of avoiding problems usually faced by Bank projects.

The committee noted that the success rate of the Bank’s social
infrastructure projects as well as social infrastructure cornponents of its
recent projects had not been up to expectation. In view of the Bank’s
increasing attention to social infrastructure projects, the committee
emphasized that social components should be carefully designed to avoid
pitfalls encountered in earlier projects.

The committee felt that often the resulis of postevaluation were
applied only to new projects. It recommended that more use be made of
lessons learned for ongoing projects, mainly during midterm reviews.

Finally, the committee drew attention to the issues of ‘ownership’
and beneficiary participation for the success of a project. It cautioned
that, notwithstanding the level of commitment displayed by a borrower, a
project could face difficulties if a similar degree of commitment and
ownership was not displayed by beneficiaries. Accordingly, the committee
recommended that all persons affected by the implementation of a
project should be consulted during project preparation and processing.

In reviewing the internal audit activities, the committee appreciated
the continued increase in productivity of the Office of the General

 

 

} Auditor.

a Budget Review Committee: The Budget Review Committee

: discussed the work plan of various departments and offices, deliberated
i on substantive issues underlining Management’s 1996 budget proposal
i and reached a consensus on its recommendations with regard to the

4 1996 budget.

‘ The committee recognized that the projected 1995 work outcome

of the year, mainly in relation to the Bank's internal reorganization. It

/ ~ represented a significant achievement despite constraints at the beginning
\ noted that the planned levels of public sector lending and technical

4 assistance commitments would be achieved while loan disbursements

: were expected to exceed the levels projected. The committee welcomed
a steps taken during 1995 to streamline the processes of budget formula4 tion and implementation. It particularly noted efforts to strengthen the

link between work program planning and budget formulation as well as
the apparent success of the internal reorganization, which was
implemented in January 1995.

The reorganization seemed to the committee to have enhanced the
Bank’s country focus and its efficiency. Coordination among operational
departments had improved. The committee appreciated the efforts made
by individual departments to implement the recommendations of the Task
Force on Improving Project Quality.

As regards staffing, the committee noted that no new position had
been created in 1995 and projected for 1996. It recognized the i increasing demand placed in the medium term on staffing resources for
implementing the new policy initiatives as well as continuing work
programs. It expressed a general concern that a number of Bank staff
were being stretched. It recommended that steps be taken io improve the
Bank’s processes. It also'reviewed the projected and. actual results of the
Special Separation Program. However, the committee acknowledged that
since the program was still ongoing, it was not yet possible to fully assess
its impact.

In the light of its deliberations and based on consistencies with the

 

 

io oie aeANNUAL REPORT 1995

[RR es

 

Power transmission
facilities

in Sri Lanka

were improved
under the
Secondary Towns
Power Distribution
project,

 

 

Three-Year Rolling Work Program and Budget Framework, the
committee unanimously agreed to recommend the Board approval
of the proposed budget for 1996, amounting to $189.9 million.

Directors’ Visits

The Board of Directors undertook two group visits in 1995.
The first visit was to India and Sri Lanka from 11 February to
2 March, and the second to Viet Nam and Cambodia from 3 to
16 September. The groups held wide-ranging policy discussions
with ministers and senior officials in the four countries and visited a
number of Bank-funded projects.

The purpose of such annual visits is to enable Board members
to gain greater understanding of the development experience and
needs not only of the DMCs visited but, more generally, also of the
region as a whole, and to become better acquainted with the Bank’s
activities in its DMCs.

Eight Directors, including the host Directors, visited India and
Sri Lanka. In India, the group was received by the Minister of
Finance, Manmohan Singh, as well as senior officials of the
Government of India and of several State Governments. In Sri
Lanka, the team was granted an audience by the President, Her
Excellency Chandrika Bandaranaike Kumaratunga, and had
meetings with senior government officials, ADB project sites were
visited in both countries. :

The group visiting Viet Nam and Cambodia comprised nine
Board members, including the host Directors. In Viet Nam, the
group met Deputy Prime Minister Phan Van Kai, and in Carnbodia,
it was received by the First Prime Minister, His Royal Highness
Samdech Krom Preah Norodom Ranaridh. The group met senior
officials in both countries and visited several ADB projects.

 

 

Appointment of Vice-President

On the recommendation of the President, the Board appointed
Pierre Uhel as Vice-President (Finance and Administration),
effective 1 July 1995, to succeed Vice-President Giinther Schulz,
who retired from the Bank on 30 June 1995.|

 

r———— ee SSR 8 yh AE aR RI ER AE EH I

Special
‘Theme

  

Roadside stall in
Hanoi:

Economic liberalization
and market reforms
are widening the range
of consumer goods
available to

the people of Viet Nam,
as also to those of
other transitional
economies of Asia.Economies in Transition:
The Asian Experience

PART I. INTRODUCTION Figure 1:
Start of Transition to Market System

O NE OF the most exciting events in recent history is the conver- Cambodia
sion of planned economies to adopting market mechanisms. It began in PRC
the late 1970s with economic reform in the People’s Republic of China

 

 

(PRC) and spread to the Soviet Union in the mid-1980s with the adop- Seathen

tion of perestroika under Mikhail Gorbachev, to Viet Nam under doi Kyraye Republic

moi in 1986, to the flood tide of countries in Eastern Europe embracing Lac PDR

market reforms after the collapse of the Berlin Wall in 1989, to the Mengolie

disintegration of the Soviet Union in 1991 and the subsequent conver
sion to market reform of all of its former republics. Among the members aE

of the Bank, nine countries are in transition; aside from PRC and Viet Urbekisten

Narn, they include Cambodia, Lao People’s Democratic Republic (Lao Viet Nam

PDR), Mongolia, Myanmar, and three republics of the former Soviet Le
Union ~ Kazakhstan, Kyrgyz Republic and Uzbekistan. These nine THRE) Be. BG SRES BG OF 8 8G) pas] 22989695

Year
countries are collectively referred to as the transitional economies of Asia.

This is an historic event with far-reaching implications. The end of
the “Cold War” has eliminated a great source of tension that had divided
the world into two ideologically opposed camps, and this has opened up
opportunities to redirect resources toward economic development and
social objectives, This change will have equally important implications for
the world economy, permitting the integration of a large group of
countries previously left out of world trade. This added participation of
another 30% of the world’s population and about 10% of the world’s
gross output will greatly expand the volume of trade and permit further
exploitation of comparative advantages in extending the world division of
labor. For development banks and other aid agencies, this historic event
brings new challenges alongside opportunities, The process of transforming planned economies into market economies has been more difficult
and prolonged than expected. While some of the problems encountered
are similar to those of developing countries, such as how to build a
modern financial system capable of mobilizing resources for investment,
others are unique to the process of transition; such as how to dismantle
an extensive but unaffordable social security system while preserving a .
safety net for the aged and infirm populations, or what to do with a vast
sector of state-owned enterprises. Some of these problems may require
new approaches in providing development assistance.

The transitional economies of Asia have to date experienced a wide *
range of outcomes in the transition process. For PRC and, to a lesser
extent, Lao PDR, Myanmar and Viet Nam, even in the early stages,
transition had brought an acceleration of growth and development, while
in Kazakhstan, Kyrgyz’ Republic, Uzbekistan and Mongolia it brought

 

   

‘aying an underground pipeline under the Guangzhou Pumped Storage Project in the
eople's Republic of China.ANNUAL REPORT 1995 :
Figure 2: ti

Growth of GDP in Selected Transitional Economies During the Transition Period

oc

 

Per Cent 4
40 5 i
t

Bi

30 i

   

 

   
   

 

Cambodia amass ~Myanmar
“10 - PRC masa Viet Nam i
Kazakhstan umooes Hungary :
Kyrgyz Republic amma Poland :
wo! L. Lao PDR seme Russia bi

 

Mongolia

 

30 Lo tt
1979 1980 1981 1982 1983 1984 1985 = 1986 1987 1988 1989 1990 1991 1992 © 1993 1994.

Note: Initial year shown does not necessarily correspond to the beginning of transition owing to data ilmitations.

substantial declines in GDP and standards of living. For Cambodia, GDP
growth fluctuated but remained positive.

Initial Conditions

 

To a large extent, these outcomes stem from differences in the initial
conditions of the countries and the factors that prompted reform. For
example, the economies of the Central Asian republics and Mongolia
had been highly integrated with those of the Soviet Union. In 1991,
intra-Soviet Union trade ratios (exports plus imports) ranged from 68%
of GDP for Kazakhstan to 90% for the Kyrgyz Republic. The sudden
collapse of the Soviet Union and interrepublican trade brought a seismic
shock to the Central Asian republics, which were plunged into the
daunting tripie tasks of building a new nation, finding new tradingSIEBER PS EE ER ras SEN Bie

RLS RS SREB RIG LE RCSL TES

   

 

ECONOMIES IN TRANSITION: THE ASIAN EXPERIENCE

 

partners and transforming their economies all at the same time. These
are far more wrenching than circumstances faced by PRC, Lao PDR or
Viet Nam at the outset of their reform efforts. For PRC, Lao PDR and
Viet Nam, reforms were prompted by growing dissatisfaction with their

” economic performances compared with those of their neighbors. Pro
found economic reforms in these countries are being introduced and
managed by existing political regimes, after shifts in the balance of
political power within their own countries made it possible to change the
orientation of economic policy.

Initial conditions and resource endowments differ. Mongolia, with
just over two million people and a high degree of linguistic and ethnic
homogeneity, could hardly be more different from PRC, with its enormous population, and from the Central Asian republics with their diverse
ethnic populations. The sectoral composition of the transitional economies of Asia ranges from the predominantly rural economy of Lao PDR,
where nearly 90% of the population relies on farming, to the more
industrialized and urbanized Central Asian republics. Cambodia is
endowed with relatively low soil fertility and limited mineral resources,
while Kazakhstan has potential reserves of oil and natural gas comparable
to the major members of the Organization of Petroleum Exporting
Countries. At the low end of the social development scale, in terms of life
expectancy and adult literacy, are Cambodia and Lao PDR, while the
other transitional economies of Asia rank much higher among developing
countries. Location is an asset for those Asian transitional economies that
are situated in and adjacent to the Pacific Rim, while Mongolia and the
Central Asian republics face problems arising from their relative geographical isolation.

‘The transitional economies of Asia differ also in the relative size of
their state sectors and the degree of control of the state apparatus over
economic activity at the initiation of reform. In Cambodia, Lao PDR,

21ANNUAL REPORT 1995

 

Box

 

C OUNTRIES such .asthose of South Asia (Bangladesh, India,
Pakisian and Sri Larika)have:until recently been subject to a high
degree ‘of state cofitrél and: government intervention in the
functioning of their economies. During the late 1980s, an elaborate program of refortt:was'begun in these countries, which has
continued in the 1990s, Reform measures include the easing of

financial, fiscal and monetary soa

 
 
   
  
  

taps; public ownership of industry is clos

dized and directed credit through the state bi
‘privatization of industry should be coord:
turing and recapitalization, and sequencing issues need to be
considered, Similarly, the delinking of fiscal policy and the financial

* sector Is necessary to ensure that the ‘state-controlled banking

“sector is not used to help finance government spending. Also, the
development of legal and institutional infrastructure and a requia~
tory framework conducive to the private sector and a liberalized
market economy has been necessary In these countries.

Thete are , however, some fundamerital differences between
ese uasi-transitional economiesand the former centrally planned
ocialist economies of Asia. In all these countries, a private sector
always existed alongside the'state sector. While private sector

 
  
 

 

exchange and trade controls, reduction in subsidies and price |
‘{iberalization, removal of bamers to foreign investment, privatization .

‘programs in the state sector, and, most importantly; reforins i in... economies of. Asia. What thas’ been hecessary is a

with bank jestruce 3

 

above are kept in mind.

 

activity may have been restricted, certain key: areas, sudh: ag
agriculture and services, particularly domestic: trade. andcommerce,
have been dominated by the private sector. :Ag-a-result, ‘matiy.
fundamental institutions and ‘conditions necessary. for libe p
rhatket activity have always existed: ‘Bven id indust
sector hasfunctioned alongside the public sécior,
have been restrictive; there has.not
oriented institutions from sératch

 

has'Been ink the ral

 

 

polictes. This fundamental difference. is ‘i ms
distinguishing the emerging markets of South Asia fromthése of
the Asian transitional economies.

‘The Bank has been actively involved in recent yearsin helping.»

the liberalization of the economies of South Asia, Policy-based..
lending in trade, industry and agriculture has been accompanied by

assistance for financial sector development in Bangladesh, India,’
Pakistan and Sri Lanka. At the same time, technical assistance hi
been provided to all the countries of South Asia’for the develo;
ment and improvement of legal and institutional infrastructii
Privatization programs in industry and finance are also bi :
actively supported. Considerable progress in this sector has been

achieved in countries such as Pakistan, Since many of thé probléins

in these countries are somewhat similar in nature to thosé 6
transitional economies of Asia, there can be benefits fromia.cro:
fertilization of ideas and experiences, if the differences irientioned

  
 
  
 

Myanmar and Viet Nam, the state enterprise sector was smaller than in

PRC and Mongolia and much smaller than in the Central Asian republics.

Despite complete collectivization of the agricultural sector in PRC,
production technology remained consistent with the requirements of

family farming. Therefore, it proved relatively easy to shift the agricultural

system in the direction of market-oriented family-based farming. The

return to househoid-based farming was similarly easy for Viet Nam, which

had never fully collectivized agriculture. In contrast, agricultural reform
and privatization are proving more difficult for the highly mechanized
collective and state farms of the Central Asian republics.

While these differences are significant and noteworthy, the transi
tional economies of Asia also have many shared experiences on the road

to market reforms, as they go through the same process of shedding
planning mechanisms and “plan mentality.” It is in identifying the

common “road blocks” and how the transitional economies of Asia have

grappled with them that lessons can be drawn from “best practices” to
facilitate the passage for latecomers. As many of these obstacles stem

from difficulties of building market-supporting institutions, lessons leamed

from the transition process can have application to other developing
countries as well.

Bohana

  
    

shecrgy Ri RTS

ne

     

ee

es

  
   

es fis eae cscs ans Bt iE

  

ECONOMIES IN TRANSITION: THE ASIAN EXPERIENCE

PART II. OVERVIEW OF TRANSITION

It is generally recognized that the Soviet-type centrally planned
economy had some distinctive features. To implement its philosophy of
replacing the market’s role in allocating resources and distributing
income, a whole structure of mechanisms and institutions was created to
effect the centralized allocation of resources and eradicate private
property. This included state ownership of the means of production,
collectivized agriculture, a centralized banking system, the use of administered prices and a system of production planning by material balances.
Production was determined by a central plan that began by specifying the
desired levels of a few key outputs such as energy, cement, steel and
grain. Through an elaborate system of input-output coefficients, the
required level and composition of all outputs in the economy were
derived to support the achievernent of these key targets. Enterprises were
given detailed orders for outputs, inputs and delivery, and managers were
simply agents for carrying out state orders. Prices and profits played a
passive role in this system as mere accounting devices, devoid of the
signalling function that they play in market economies, where they
convey information about shifts in demand and supply. Foreign trade was
also highly centralized. Imports and exports were strictly controlled and
incorporated in command plans. Trading was monopolized by a srnall
number of specialized state agencies, which procured export commodities
from domestic producers at prices completely divorced from world prices,
and sold imported goods at domestic prices that were often equally
insulated. .

To build a market economy requires, first of all, eliminating direct
control over resource allocation, prices and foreign trade, and dismantling
the whole structure of central planning mechanisms. These are commonly referred to as liberalization measures. As Table 2 shows, the
transitional economies of Asia have all made substantial progress in
freeing resources to market allocation and allowing the emergence of
product markets. To cushion the effect of price liberalization, most of
these economies retain subsidies for a few consumer goods, such as basic
foods, publi¢ utilities and housing. Progress on freeing interest rates and
credit allocation, and breaking up state monopolies has been slower,
mainly because of worry over their effect on state-owned enterprises and
their impact on budgetary revenues. Building market-supporting institutions has proven far more difficult, and in most transitional economies of
Asia the process is just beginning.

Macroeconomic and Regulatory
Restructuring

The process of dismantling the planning system commonly produces
a number of structural dislocations, the symptoms of which include
macroeconomic imbalance, inflation, large shifts in relative prices and
production, and in some cases a sudden loss of employment and the
social safety net, While the severity of these problems may differ across
the transitional economies of Asia, the nature of restructuring necessary
to address these problems is similar.

Declines in budgetary resources are a common phenomenon (see
Figure 3), whether caused by the cessation of transfers from the former

Figure 3:
Fiscal Declines in the Transitional
Economies of Asia

Total Revenue as Per Cent of GDP

   

i
20 :
1985 1986 1987 1988 1989 1990 1991 1992 1993 1904

PRC
Mongolia
Viet Nam
Lao PDR
4a Kyravz Rep.
Kazakhstan__ HBERALIZATION ‘
» ‘Factor tharkets '
‘Labor mobility.

Interest rate determina’
"Riiral land ownership

Prices
‘Producer godds

Coneymer goods e

iiivlers to entry té orediction :

Forélgii trade
‘Exchange:rate®

‘Import barriers *

_ Export barriers

» Compailtion amarig
trade agents

INSTITUTIONAL REFORM
Fiscal."
« Tax réfatcn
(1) -turndvertaxes
: es Unified rate struct
for enterprise inca
“8) introduced personal
income tax:

‘Intergovernmental Feventie- f oe Ls
‘sharing: Vr Negotiated
‘Financlal ‘ tb :

Banking reform: fete :
(1) private barks»: (i) Yes ) Yes. iy z
(2) eoinpdition anions bane (2) Yes, .°.\ (2) Limited's.’ (2) Yea.
8) criteria for-credit (3) 30-40% * 2) Masti,
AB, / policy.

+ allocate

; Capital imatket devel

Commetelal Lav
Property law
Banknipteyla

' . Antimonopoly
Foreign investmei

State enterprise refon
.; Management autonomy:
\(1) production decisio:” 2:
(2) hiring and firing of staff.
(3) wage settirig
Aainyesimentl Cision

* Shite e
Small and mediui
2 enterprises .

© Large enterprises

- Social sector ‘s
‘Urban housing’.

Benckén ‘boverade

 

Lao PDR © Mongolia “Myanmar ‘Uzbekistan ‘Viet Nam

Unrestricted,-.Unresiristed +
Controlled . -, Contralled:

iig Transferable, Phivaie. _ > Transferable jntiodueing
vo dease rights: es gage hte privatization

: (2) Yes,» 8 Limited:
@) Cora (3) 30: soe

ty

| Mestly Mt
private:ECONOMIES IN TRANSITION: THE ASIAN EXPERIENCE

 

 

 

 

Soviet Union and the Council for Mutual Economic Assistance (which
affected the Central Asian republics, Lao PDR, Mongolia and Viet Nam)
or collapsing profitability of state-owned enterprises, or both. Persistent
fiscal deficits are also common, since expenditures are often buoyed by
ballooning subsidies as governments try to shield state-owned enterprises

"and consumers from the shock of market adjustment. The largest fiscal

deficits are in the Central Asian republics, where macroeconomic imbalance was far more severe. The period of transition is also accompanied
by higher inflation — the severity of which corresponds roughly with the
size of the initial shock brought by transition — ranging from the modest
increases experienced by PRC, Lao PDR and Myanmar to hyperinflation
in Mongolia (albeit shortlived), Cambodia and especially the Central Asian
republics. .

Reforming the fiscal system requires overhauling all key components,
from the structure of taxes to tax administration and revenue-sharing
arrangements, The tax system of Asian transitional economies differs
from the systems of other countries in a number of respects. First, the
ratio of tax to GDP was high. Second, the tax structure was narrowly

‘focused on industry, where administered prices were biased in favor of
industry and against agriculture, and raw materials produced huge
surpluses in industry, which were collected from the state-owned enterprises. There was little need for a complex system of taxes or of tax
administration. At the same time, the large number of rates for tumover
taxes distorted incentives (see Box 2). As prices are liberalized and siaie
ownership of industry declines, a new structure of taxes is needed to
broaden the revenue base and eliminate distortions. Finally, overall tax
rates should be reduced to avoid discouraging production and consump-ANNUAL REPORT 1995

    
  
   
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
  

Box 3: The Bad Debt ‘Problem

I HE BAD debt problemis legacy of the
centrally planned system. Loans were routinely extended to state-owned enterprises

thelr productive efficiency. Many state-owned
enterprises were being run an subsidies. Once
these subsidies are removed and prices liberalized, it becomes impossible for enterprises
to service their debts, In addition to the stock
of bad loans, which itself is difficult to estiimate, almost all transitional economies continue to provide new loans to. loss-making
state-owned enterprises, and thus the burden
-.of bad debt continues to increase.
The problems that arise due to the buri den of bad debt are numerous. First, ihe stock
Hi of bad loans and new loans to loss-making
“enterprises make it difficult to improve bank
efficiency. It also distorts the allocation of
“ etedit by creating bias against newly emerg_ ing, more efficient and profit-making firms.
., An additional problem of having a large number of loss-rnaking state-owned enterprises is
i *' that banks cannot improve their supervisory
-and regulatory functions. Finally, the bad debt
i |. problem comiplicates and delays bank
° privatization.
|.) "There aretwo main approaches to dealei | ing with the tad debt problem. The first
advocates transferring all bad debts’-off. the
: ‘balance sheets of state banks to the central
t .. bank, or to a cehtral institution; which then
looks after the bad loan portfolio. This allows
“the banks to start anew and.to incorporate

 

‘cedures when making new loans. The second:
approach is a decentralized one, where each
“bank takes care of its loan portfolio, while
providing recapitalization in order to improve
thesolvency of the bank. This approach, while
‘preferred by many transitional economies,
must be accompanied by very strict refortns of
enterprises. It may be necessary to allow
“enterprises to close down rather than continue being a burden. In bath approaches; the

+ incentive structure for banks should be changed
» toensure that they alter their lending behavior
and stop making imprudent Joans, Also, tak{hg care of bad debts, both acéurtulated and

 

“will either have toraise revenues or cut 7
ditures'to fund these “fiscal” liabilities. i

   

 

BB 2c

 

 

 

regardless of their ability to pay back or of | |

|... standardized supervisory and regulatory.pra- =

+. new, has broader fiscal implications. The state. |

tion, and the overall size of government will have to shrink.

Reform of the financial system is needed to ensure separation of
fiscal and monetary controls, to free the banking system from the dictates
of central planning and to increase its effectiveness in mobilizing private
savings. Under central planning, financial indicators were secondary to
quantitative planning. The financial sector was comprised mainly of the
state bank, whose task was to allocate funds according to fiscal directives.
Credit plans and ceilings acted as the key tools for implementing monetary policy, and the legal and institutional frameworks required for the
regulation and supervision of the financial system were nonexistent. The
state bank operated principally as cashier and accountant for the government. Its functions included not only those of a central bank in managing
the credit plan, money supply and issuarice of currency, but also cormmercial bank functions such as lending and deposit taking. State regulation
typically required each enterprise to hold accounts at only one branch of
the state bank, enabling the bank to monitor enterprise accounts to
check their financial activities.

The main challenge with respect to banking reform is to create a
banking sector that is more efficient in performing its role in a market
economy: specifically, in the mobilization and allocation of financial
savings, the development of mechanisms for credit decisions, and
improvement in banking services (i.e., interbank services, payments
processing, customer service and so forth). Developing a modern and
efficient banking sector takes time. Reforms in the transitional economies
of Asia have usually started with the restructuring of state-owned banks. i
However, recapitallzation of banks has been constrained by budgetary "
problems and concomitant reforms in the enterprise sector. The next q
step will require strengthening the regulatory framework through the fi
enforcement of adequate prudential norms, financial reporting require- i
ments, loan classification and loan loss provisioning requirements, and
the implementation of new accounting standards within commercial
banks. The central bank should be given greater powers of supervision
and enforcement of these norms, including powers to terminate and
liquidate banks that fail to meet them.

Promoting the development of the private and financial sectors and
securities market requires a legal system which protects private property,
requlates transfers and registers titles. Private sector development
requires that property can be used as collateral, thus enhancing credit and
liquidity. The legal system is also required to enforce contracts, reduce the
costs of bankruptcies and set competition policy, including rules for entry
and exit. By determining the ease with which creditors can attach assets
of borrowers in case of default, the effectiveness of the legal system can
affect the cost of credit and the willingness of lenders to make loans. The
transitional economies of Asia have just begun to introduce commercial
laws. Developing the capability to enforce contracts and agreements is
vital for the promotion of investment and trade, and for the reduction of
economic uncertainty and costs.

 

 

 

Social Sector Issues

As part of the transition process, countries need to reevaluate the
provision of social services, in particular education, health and social
welfare. Public and private roles in providing these seryices need to be©

 

 

ECONOMIES iN TRANSITION: THE ASIAN EXPERIENCE

 

 

redefined and the organizational structure and financing of these services
revamped. In the reform process, the old systems are being dismantled
and/or privatized, while new institutional and market structures.are slowly
evolving. Attempts to increase cost recovery, encourage private sector
participation and promote insurance are being experimented with in
almost all the Asian transitional economies.

Under central planning, the transitional economies of Asia gave high
priority to the provision of social services, offering free or low-cost
education and health services to a large portion of the population with
emphasis on equity in access, often at the cost of efficiency. Thus, at the
start of reform, these economies, with the exceptions of Cambodia and
Lao PDR, had more favorable education and health indicators than those
of most market economies at similar income levels (see Table 3). Ina
market-oriented econorny, the government needs to continue to provide
and subsidize only those goods and services which can be considered
public goods and to introduce user fees where appropriate.

In the Asian transitional economies, government provision of these
services has been cut back, in some places quite drastically with the
closing of kindergartens and health clinics. Private sector provision of
education and health is just being introduced and formalized, and is
beginning to play a supplementary role in a number of countries.
Students are facing substantially higher fees and tuition, and patients now
must pay the market price for medicine and higher fees for services. At
the same time, some educators and medical personnel have left the
traditionally low-paying jobs in the social sector, lured by increased

 

 

Figure 4:
Women's Share of Labor Force
(most recent estimates)ANNUAL REPORT 1995

Box 4: Larid tit ing.
Status of Wom '

Doria ¥,
inherited family land: aicorollary « ‘of:thelr
duty to care for elderly parents. For example;
frequently the youngest:daugtiter would ‘remain at home to care for the parents in their
éld age and would maititain herhouseheld in
the parents" home after her marriage. In
exchange, it Was customary that herparents’
land would pass to her upon their ‘deaths.
Recently, land titling is being introduced in
‘Lao PDR in conjunction with financial sector

they are generally not encouraged tg sign the
new ‘forrial deeds of ownership being prepared, All surveyors to date have been men,
and the de facto land’ ownership of many
women appeats to be going unrecognized,
With potentially adverse consequences forthe
"economic status of women.

 

Hl 2:

 
     
   

reform so that property can_ be used, as.
* collateral. However, because Lao’ worten.’
.. are.not deemed to have a role'in public life, :

 

opportunities in other sectors of the economy, or, in some cases, (such as
Viet Nam and the Ceniral Asien republics} have left the country altogether. As a result, most of the transitional economies of Asia have
noted, particularly in poor areas, declines in primary and secondary
education attendance and a deterioration in health indicators, such as
increases in the infant mortality rate and the reemergence of contagious
diseases. These may be short-term phenomena resulting from the fiscal
crisis and disruptions of ongoing reforms that will hopefully be halted and
reversed once new institutional and market structures are in place.

Many of the transitional economies of Asia offered generous social
welfare benefits, such as retirement, maternity leave, and low-income
assistance, to broad segments of their populations through state organizations. Some of these programs are no longer affordable, and costs will
have to be partially shifted to consumers through insurance schemes with
employee contributions. Some governments have already been forced to
curtail social expenditures to bring the budget under control and achieve
macroeconomic stability, For example, in an attempt to reduce the fiscal
deficit, Kazakhstan has eliminated the indexing of social benefits to
increases in the cost of living and reduced the scope of eligibility. These
measures have allowed the Government to achieve some control over the
budget, but in the process left gaping holes in the social safety net.

Changing employment patterns, brought about by reform of stateowned enterprises, encouragement of private sector growth and increased Jabor mobility, have altered the demand for social security
programs, such as old-age and unemployment insurance. With the
adoption of more market-oriented systems, open unemployment is rising
and domestic and international migration is increasing. Estimates place
urban unemployment in early 1995 at over two million in Viet Nam, with
the unemployment rate as high as 25% in some urban areas. Increased
labor flows necessitate the introduction not only of unemployment
insurance but also of portable pensions. PRC is in the process of shifting
from a firm-based pension system to insurance pools at the city and
provincial levels.

In general, women fared relatively well under the socialist systems of
the transitional economies of Asia, which gave high priority to the
equality of women by increasing their access to education, emphasizing
maternal and child health, and expanding women’s participation in the
labor force. The favorable social indicators for women in Table 3 and
Figure 4 reflect these efforts. It is too eatly to draw firm conclusions since
the signals about the situation of women in the transition period are
mixed.

In PRC and Viet Nam, which are experiencing rapid economic
growth, women enjoy greater employment opportunities and higher
incomes. In Lao PDR and Cambodia, where women’s status and per
capita GDP levels were lowest at the start of reforms, women are
experiencing a slower expansion of job opportunities and are still held
back by the severe restrictions on budget support for social services. In
the Central Asian republics and Mongolia with plummeting GDP,
women’s employment and incomes are declining and women are likely to
be faring worse than men. The economic depression and fiscal cutbacks
have posed particularly hard challenges for women. The closure of social
service facilities has meant increased unemployment in fields where
women have traditionally been predominant. For example, in the Central
Asian republics, 80% of employees in the social services and 65% of

 

 

|
|
H

 

q

i

i
|ECONOMIES IN TRANSITION: THE ASIAN EXPERIENCE

    

 

 

 

  

ww =
128 those employed in the administrative services are women. The reduction
in the provision of social services has also increased the burden on
women as, traditionally, they have borne the primary responsibility for
caring for children, the sick and the elderly. Thus, the closure of kindergartens, daycare centers and clinics has reduced their employment
8 opportunities, At the same time, it has increased the difficulties of
u carrying out work in the household. In the Kyrgyz Republic, in 1995,
nd approximately 60% of the registered unemployed were women and
almost three quarters of them had children under 14 years of age.
1 , Finally, women may also be adversely affected by the growing wage
differentiation across sectors since wages in the sectors where women
BE predominate are among the lowest. For example, in Kazakhstan, social
all sactor wages are only 55% of the average wage and agricultural wages
ith are 31% of industrial wages.
to
Je
al Restructuring of the Productive Sectors i
2 Industry
the The more industrialized transitional economies of Asia face enormous and difficult tasks in restructuring their industries. Under central
- planning, industrialization was vigorously pursued in isolation from world
arkets and behind very high protectionist walls. Built to meet the
demands of an autarkic planned economy, guided by distorted domestic
prices, lacking access to world technology and led by managers with little
ing tonomy and fewer incentives, state-owned enterprises suffered from
Be ampant inefficiency. Once state-owned enierprises were forced to face
vith increasing pressures from the market, many could not survive without
d ostantial restructuring and reorganization. Other industries built in
sponse to strategic concerns of the Cold War — the preponderance of
ng ilitary and defense industries scattered throughout the transitional
onomies of Asia — also had to be substantially trimmed. The problem of
industrial structure and composition that is unsuited to economies
of opened to world trade is especially acute in the Central Asian republics,
. where most industries were designed to produce inputs for industries
g
2
re
1
y to
ks
sial
lak ir highly:
tral jally dependent on:extemalANNUAL REPORT 1995

a ee ee

 

elsewhere in the Soviet Union {see Box 6). ‘

 

 

 

 

 

Box 7: The Impact of
Restructuring on
‘Company. Towns

 
  
 
  
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
  
 
 
 
  
  
  
  
 
  
 
  
 
 
  
  
  
  
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
  

T HE CITY of Ternirtau in Kazakhstan has.
a population of 210,000,.of which’34,000 or: =
nearly half of the labor force aré ernployed by
the Karaganda ‘Metallurgic Enterprises
(KARMET}, a major producer of pig ‘iron;
steel and other metal products. KARMET is
the largest state-owned industrial enterprise’ |
in Kazakhstan. In addition to its primary’ *.
activity of steel production, it also operatesia
garment factory and seven: state farms.
. Temirtau, typical of the company towns that.” J
can be found throughout the Central Asian.»
republics and PRC, is heavily dgpendent on... :
the activities of this one large state-owned |
firm. The community is dependent ‘on
KARMET not only for employment but also
_ for the provision of social services. For ex“ample, KARMET constructed and operates
*., 32 kindergartens, a stadium and 2 million
“square meters of housing in the city, Since the
early 1990s, it has fully subsidized the city's
“public bus system. KARMET estimates that
maintenance of these social assets accounts
for 12% of its production cosls.

KARMET is in serious financial difficulivties and operated at only about 40% of its 4
“eapacity in 1994. The collapse of the former . «|
je Soviet Union and the deterioration of the

economy in Russia have meant a loss. of its
!° major export market. Price libevalization and.
-. inflation have led to rising energy and tra
port costs. Like many’ state-owned
prises in Kazakhstan, the cofnpaniyis ca
up in triangular debt: it is not paid for deli :
ies of products and in turn does not pay its
input suppliers. Employees’ salaries ‘are ‘'=|
months in arrears. Purthermore, the com-"' 4
* pany is experiencing an outflow of skilled . ©
? technicians, many of them ethnic Russians.
The restructuring of state enterprises in
company towns is particularly difficult. The
:) ‘government does not feel it can allow a firm...
such as KARMET to simply go bankrupt
. because the social costs are so tremendous.
The government proceeds cautiously with
: teforrn and often continues to subsidize such
firms in the interest of the larger community.
Ultimately, the’ survival of Temirtau as a «
community depends on the successful reori. entation of KARMET ta the inatket, =

 

 

 

All the transitional economies of Asia have taken at least initial steps
to boost efficiency in state-owned enterprises by improving management
incentives, by granting some autonomy over production and the choice of
inputs, wage setting and the issuance of bonuses, and by tightening the
flow of subsidized credit. To separate state-owned enterprises more
clearly from government finances, some effort has been made to help
such enterprises shed their quasi-fiscal burdens of providing pensions,
medicat care and other social services, such as day care and subsidized
housing, to employee families. However, progress on shedding these
social burdens is constrained by the lack of alternative supplies at affordable prices. Some effort has also gone into upgrading the technical
efficiency of state-owned enterprises through new investments in advanced technology and machinery from abroad. In PRC, the government
has injected massive investments into state-owned enterprises through the
transition period.

In general, the governments of the transitional economies of Asia
have been reluctant to shut off credit extension to loss-making enterprises
even though such a situation is unsustainable and inflationary. Moreover,
in PRC, as long as subsidies continue, the door remains open for the
misallocation of state funds to benefit workers and managers, and
improvements in technical efficiency have not translated into improved
financial performance in state-owned enterprises. As a result, more than
40% of these enterprises are loss-making. In the early 1990s, subsidies
cost as much as 10% of GDP through a combination of budgetary outlays
and bank loans, In the Central Asian republics, loss subsidies to siateowned enterprises were similarly of the order of 10% of GDP in 1992
and 1993. In spite of these high costs, the transitional economies of Asia,
with substantial state-owned enterprise sectors are proceeding slowly and
cautiously on reform for fear of massive unemployment and a loss in the
social safety net (see Box 7).

In contrast to their East European counterparts, the transitional
economies of Asia have, in general, applied privatization only to small
and medium state-owned enterprises, keeping large ones under public
ownership. The process of ownership reform has been most rapid in the
Kyrgyz Republic, where nearly 90% of all registered enterprises were in
the private sector by 1995. In Kazakhstan, more than 20% of all small
and medium-size enterprises had been privatized by the beginning of
1995. While privatization has gone quite far in the service sector in PRC,
selling off small state-owned enterprises in industry began only in 1995,
Instead, the PRC Government has relied on the growth of nonstate
enterprises to reduce the share of industrial output from state-owned
enterprises to just 40%: On the margin, they have also experimented
with the conversion of selected state-owned enterprises into joint-stock
companies, whereby enterprises issue shares that are sold to other
enterprises, government departments, employees or the public.

Agriculture

Prior to reform, agriculture was the most important sector, in terms
of employment and/or output, in all the transitional economies of Asia,
except Mongolia and Kazakhstari. Even in the latter two counirles,
agriculture was considered vitally important both economically and
culturally. In the Asian transitional economies, with the exception of
Myanmar, agriculture was organized around a system of state farms and

 

 

HT Bx

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

=s
it
of

nt
he

ies
Yn

ays

sia,

id

a

4
i
i

4
:
i
é
4
a
:
'

 

Soca iener enn seme sse

  
   
   
 
 
 
   

    

some form of collective farming. The state set prices and dominated the
marketing of beth inputs and outputs. Agricultural production and
marketing outside the state sector were limited. In the shift to a marketoriented economy, reforms in the agriculture sector have focused on the
restructuring of farms, including granting management autonomy to
individuals or households; liberalization of input and output prices; and
reduction of trade restrictions.

Decollectivization, along with increases in state procurement prices,
has dramatically improved the incentive structure for agriculture in
Cambodia, PRC, Lao PDR and Viet Narn. But, for several reasons, it is
proving more difficult in the Central Asian republics and Mongolia. First,
in these countries, farms were highly organized and specialized, using
capital-intensive technology and skilled labor. This type of state farm
organization does not lend itself to conversion to, household-based
farming as easily as was the case in Cambodia, PRC, Lao PDR and Viet
Nam with their small-scale, low-technology farming systems. Second,
under central planning, extensive investment had been undertaken in the
Central Asian republics to bring marginal lands under production, In
facing the competition of world prices, continued cultivation of these
lands cannot be economically or ecologically justified. Finally, the situation
is compounded by the collapse of the former Soviet Union and the loss of
input and output’markets. The result has been severe declines in output
rather than the increases experienced by PRC, Lao PDR and Viet Nam.
In the Kyrgyz Republic, between 1990 and 1994, crop production fell
40% and livestock 32%. In Kazakhstan, grain production declined 44%
over the same period and the number of cattle fell by nearly 20%. The
decline in agriculture, however, was less serious than in other sectors. It is
noteworthy that in Mongolia, with the return to positive GDP growth in
1994, agriculture recorded a growth rate of over 7% compared with less
than 3% for industry.

Decollectivization in the transitional economies of Asia has meant the
assignment of land use and management rights to individuals or households, while land ownership has remained vested with the state or all the
people. Clear land-use and ownership rights, protected by a legal system,
are essential for production and investment incentives and for the use of
land as loan collateral. In the Kyrgyz Republic, land leases with a term of
49 years are available with the right to sell, exchange, transfer by inheritance and use as a security deposit. Viet Nam, through the Land Law of
1998, extended land tenure rights to 20 to 50 years, depending on land
use. Kazakhstan has gone the farthest with 99-year leases and the
introduction of private ownership for small garden plots.

PART Ill. LESSONS FROM THE
TRANSITIONAL ECONOMIES OF ASIA

There appears to be no quick-fix solution to transition. Just as
building a planned economy took decades of political struggle and
experimentation, the road back from it will also be long and arduous,
Rather than focusing on the need for short-term demand management to
achieve macroeconomic stabilization, this chapter has emphasized the
need for broadbased restructuring throughout the economy. These
changes take time because many of the market-supporting institutions
have to be built from the ground up, while others will require a funda
 

 

 

ECONOMIES IN TRANSITION: THE ASIAN EXPERIENCEANNUAL REPORT 1995

mental shift in thinking.

The list of needed changes is broadly similar across the transitional
economies of Asia - building new macroeconomic and regulatory control
levers, restructuring the productive sectors, adjusting the output mix and
providing for social services, etc. However, the specific strategy in terms
of the pace, sequence and orientation of change will differ in each case.

Two lessons can be drawn for the transition process through an
examination of the case of PRC, which has had the longest-running and, hh
to date, a very successful experience with economic liberalization among H
all transitional economies ~ not just in Asia but in Eastern Europe and the
9 ween former Soviet Union as well. These are, first, that gradualism can trans~
avoidin g la rgé form planned economies to matket-orlented ones while avoiding the large

social =| social and economic upheavals offen caused by “big bang” approaches.
te Second, serendipitous factors are often overlooked in explaining why
particular “qood policies” are chosen and not others. The fortuitous
choice in this case was the early decision by PRC to begin opening its
economy to world trade, which has been a major source of growth and
dynamism that have smoothed the transition process.

 

  

 

The Gradualist Approach to Transition

The distinctive “model” in the Asian transitional economies is the
gradualist approach pioneered by PRC and adopted by Lao PDR and
Viet Narn. Through step-by-step reduction of state control, PRC has
successfully bullt fairly competitive product markets and turned most of
the economy over to market allocation. By the mid-1990s, the share of
GDP produced by the state sector had fallen to less than 20%, with stateowned enterprises accounting for less than 45% of gross industrial
output, In the process, the PRC economy has enjoyed unprecedented
growth and structural change, with an annual growth of 9.5% in real
GDP during 1978-1994, a decline in the proportion of the labor force in
agriculture from 71% to 56% in 1993, and exports rising to moré than
20% of GDP. During the transition, the average Chinese citizen has
enjoyed relative price stability and impressive improvements in the
standard of living, buttressed by steady increases in life expectancy and
other socioeconomic indicators.

This remarkable performance has evoked a lively debate about what ;
ig the best strategy for transforming planned economies into market
economies: the “big bang” approach (often called the shock therapy) or
gradualism. In contrast to the gradualist approach, “big bang” calls for
immediate price liberalization and elimination of state control over
resource allocation and rapid privatization of state assets. This strategy
was essentially adopted in Mongolia and the Central Asian republics, and
in many European transitional economies.

Aside from the incremental, cautious approach to liberalization, the :
most notable feature of the gradualist model is the creation of a dualistic
economy in the short to medium term, where a market segment is
permitted to emerge and grow while the planned segment is gradually
allowed to shrink. In PRC, this process began in the late 1970s in
agriculture. Reductions in procurement quotas and the liberalization of
rural trade permitted an incipient market to emerge, while the bulk of

agricultural products remained under state procurement and allocation.
Subsequent changes, such as decollectivization, the gradual elimination of

Be 22 ‘

 

ee egpnagern got . neof

 

Ge: EE

SERRE.

 

‘

ECONOMIES IN TRANSITION: THE ASIAN EXPERIENCE

 

 

 

 

 

jabor and migration controls, and official sanctioning of private enterprise, permitted the market in agriculture products to grow rapidly
through the 1980s. However, it was not until the early 1990s that all
state orders were eliminated, turning the agriculture sector completely
over to market pricing and allocation. _

In industry, dualism was even more pronounced in pricing, product
markets and financing. State-owned enterprises were kept under plan
control through the 1980s, while nonstate firms were permitted to enter
and grow, and to operate at market prices. The state-run banking system
provided subsidized credit to state-owned enterprises, while nonstate
firms were self-financed or had to raise funds at high cost through
informal channels. Over time, plan orders to state-owned enterprises
were reduced and state contro} of product and commodity markets
gradually eliminated. Even in 1991, one third of all transactions in the
economy still occurred at plan prices and were covered by state plans.
With accelerated liberalization in the 1990s, only a few strategic commodities, such as oil, electric power and coal, remain under partial state
allocation today, and the gap between plan and market prices has beenANNUAL REPORT 1995

eT

 

closed. The two-track system of industry has been gradually eliminated
over 15 years, except for the continued allocation of credit in favor of the
state sector. Box 8 presents the story of gradualist reform in the financial
sector in PRC.

PRC's impressive record notwithstanding, the gradualism vs. “big
bang” debate has been inconclusive because, in general, the countries
concerned have not yet completed the process of transition. While PRC
may be the farthest along the road, its reforms are still incomplete, Some
of the biggest remaining hurdles include building an effective set of ¥
macroeconomic management levers. Progress on this is constrained by
the Government's inability to rein in the huge financial burden of subsi- i
dies to state-owned enterprises. As a result, macroeconomic stability is ;
difficult to maintain in PRC. Moreover, critics point out that the gradualist
option is not available to everyone. Highly urbanized and industrialized
countries, where the state sector accounts for the overwhelming share of
employment, have much less room to maneuver. PRC, Lao PDR and
Viet Nam can afford to carry the inefficient state sector on the strength of
growth in the nonstate economy; but countries like Kazakhstan, where i
the state sector accounted for 90% of GDP at the outset of transition, a
have a much smaller “margin for liberalization.” Resources are simply too
f eet : limited outside the state sector to engender significant growth dynamism. A
\ The debate is not likely to be settled easily. However, it is useful to a
| focus attention on the sources of dynamism and price stability in PRC '

over the past decade to draw two lessons from the gradualist success that :
may have application in all transitional economies. First, from the mid1980s onward, nonstate enterprises and the foreign trade sector have
played a significant role in PRC's economic development. To enable
i these sectors to grow and prosper, a favorable incentive environment
i should be created. Second, while cultural factors undoubtedly play a role
in explaining the very high household savings rate in PRC (in excess of
u 20% of household income), maintaining positive real interest rates
through most of the transition period also played a key role in mobilizing
financial resources to support the rapid economic growth.

 

 

 

 

i
i The “Proximate Model” of Development
} and Outward Orientation

! Opening the economy to international trade and financial flows is
| one of the crucial aspects of economic decentralization and liberalization.
It also represents a decisive and philosophical break from the past, when,
| under central planning, the transitional economies of Asia had been
sealed off from international trade to pursue autarkic development :
strategies. All the transitional economies of Asia have, by their member- 5
ship in the Bank and other development institutions, explicitly accepted
the premise that foreign capital inflows will speed up the process of
transition by helping to finance needed imports and investment. However, the extent to which they will open their economies to trade will
likely vary. 4
Among the Asian transitional economies, PRC has most successfully
tapped trade as an engine of growth (see Box 9). The rapid entry of PRC
into world trade was due in large part to two serendipitous circumstances:
namely, its location in the fast-growing East Asian region and its close
cultural and linguistic ties to the dynamic economies of Hong Kong and

4
|
i

 

 

 

 

BB 3430
ae

at

   

 

bre

 

EPR AEE

2
4
g

i
a

 

ro eaten

ECONOMIES IN TRANSITION; THE ASIAN EXPERIENCE

 

 

Taipei,China. Strong complementarities link the three economies: PRC
has abundant and low-cost land and labor, while Hong Kong and
Taipei,China have abundant financial capital and marketing knowhow.
Upon its opening, PRC quickly displaced locations in Southeast Asia as
export platforms for firms in Hong Kong and Taipei,China, for whom
Guangdong and Fujian Provinces in PRC are closer in both geographic ©
and cultural-linguistic terms.

Aside from supplying the capital and knowhow, Hong Kong and
Taipei,China had in another respect played an even more important role
in paving the way for PRC’s rapid integration into world trade. They
provided a “proximate model” of development. Although among the
most successful, Hong Kong and Taipei,China were by no means the
only economies pursuing an export-led growth strategy in the late 1970s.
But they were the most important to PRC’s decisionmaking because
these economies were well known to many in PRC. Their very success in
transforming low-income economies into newly industrializing economies
in a short span of time definitively demonstrated the benefits of an export
orientation and helped reformers in PRC to overcome internal opposition
to embrace the strategy of opening to world trade. This successful
experience of opening to trade means that PRC can now provide a
comparable demonstration effect to the other Asian transitional economies. To these economies, PRC's journey from an autarkic planned
economy to one with a vibrant export sector can be a “proximate model”
for the transition process.

The transitional economies in Southeast Asia seem poised for
integration into world trade. Viet Nam became a member of the Association of Southeast Asian Nations in 1995, and the others ~ Cambodia,
Lao PDR and Myanmar — may soon follow. With its abundant and skilled
labor force, Viet Nam will likely be quickly absorbed into the network ofANNUAL REPORT 1995

 
 
  
  

 

 

Figure 5: .
PRC: Growth of GDP and External Trade
Per Cent
120 [~
100 “] Gross Domestic Product
sascaas Imports
Total Trade
Exports
80 |
60

40

20 
 

       

 

 

 

 
   

1986 1987 1988 1989 1990 1991 199; 1993

 

1979 1980 1981 1982 1983

Note: Data are in current prices.

East Asian export industries. Already it is attracting significant investments from the “tiger” economies, competing directly against PRC to
become an export platform in textiles and garments. Lao PDR has clear
complementarities with the rapidly growing economy of neighboring
Thailand, and is already exporting hydroeleciricity and raw materials in
exchange for investment capital and markets for agricultural products and
light manufactures.

Integration into world trade will be more difficult for the Central
Asian republics because of their landlocked position — especially their
poor transport and communication facilities except to Russia - and their
location in a slow-growing region marked by significant political strife. In
the short run, the hope for economic recovery may lie in reviving economic cooperation among the countries of the former Soviet Union.
However, a number of cooperation agreements have been signed and
abandoned because of the difficulties of coordinating customs regulations
and tax policies among the participants. In the longer run, the Central
Asian republics must diversify to markets other than those of the former
Soviet.Union because of the limited complementarities among themselves
and to avoid perpetuating the distortions that had marked their preferential trade with the former Soviet Union economies.ad

 

 

 

PART IV. BANK OPERATIONS IN THE
TRANSITIONAL ECONOMIES OF ASIA

The central focus of the Bank’s operational strategy in the
transitional economies of Asia is to facilitate their transition to a
market economy. The strategy entails providing three types of
assistance: {i) short-term assistance to help these economies survive
the shock of restructuring; (ii) financing improvements in infrastructure, capital equipment and technology to raise efficiency and environmental standards; and (iii) policy advice and assistance in building
market-supporting institutions. The Bank provides this assistance in a
mix of program and project loans as well as technical assistance
grants. These operating objectives are consistent with thematic
priorities of the Bank’s medium-term strategic framework and
reflected in the country operational strategy studies for the individual
transitional economies.

The Bank works in close cooperation with the World Bank and.
the International Monetary Fund, which are providing substantial

" support to the governments through policy advice related to

macroeconomic stabilization and structural adjustment programs. The
Bank also cooperates with others active in the Asian transitional
economies, such as the European Bank for Reconstruction and
Development, United Nations Development Programme, and a
number of bilateral donors.

The transition to a market economy involves a fundamental
change in the role of government. While withdrawing from resource
allocation in the productive sectors, the government must provide an
appropriate policy, regulatory and legal framework to support the
proper functioning of market mechanisms. Consequently, the Bank’s
strategy emphasizes that its assistance in all sectors be accompanied
by policy advice and sector restructuring to ensure better governance
and appropriate macroeconomic and sectoral policies.

Short-Term Assistance

To provide short-term assistance, agriculture sector program
loans were approved by the Bank for Viet Nam in 1994 and for
Kazakhstan, Kyrgyz Republic and Mongolia in 1995. Policy advice
which accompanied these loans related to institutional reform,
promotion of competitive markets, improvement of agricultural
infrastructure, facilitation of the restructuring and privatization of stateowned agricultural enterprises, and social and environmental concerns. Loans to the industrial sector have helped the transitional
economies of Asia implement policy and institutional reforms,
promote the private sector, and develop the legal and regulatory
framework. In addition to program lending, the Bank finances specific’
projects to support the development of export industries and the
private sector in general.

 

 

 

ECONOMIES IN TRANSITION: THE ASIAN EXPERIENCE

 

37ANNUAL REPORT 1995

Development of Infrastructure

Loans provided to the transitional economies of Asia in 1995
included the construction of the Hebei and Liaoning expressways in PRC,
national air navigation development in Mongolia, rural infrastructure
improvement in Cambodia and the integrated urban development of
Vientiane in Lao PDR. By alleviating constraints in key sectors, such as
transport and communications, energy, industry and agriculture, and by
supporting reform policies in these sectors, the loans will help improve
economic efficiency and growth. At the same time, they will improve
environmental protection and natural resource conservation by reducing
pollution in major urban industrial centers; promoting the use of improved environmental management; and strengthening the institutional
capabilities of agencies involved in assessing and monitoring environmental impacts and in formulating and enforcing environmental laws and
regulations,

      

Box 10: The Progress
Legal Reform in Mongoli

I N1990, Mongolia began a rapid:transiti
to a market economy after.a lengthy exp
‘mentation with a command structure, but with ©
litle experience in the operation of a.market
system, In a July 1993 letter to the Bank,
Mongolia's Prime Minister referred to the
essential role that the legal and regulatory
framework plays in a market economy, and
requested the Bank to support the
Government's efforts in developing Mongotia's” 5
“Jeqal framework. The Bank subsequently pro-’..:
i vided a technical assistance, ‘
The technical assistance has enabled the. :
_:, engagement of a team of lawyers who have:
worked as resource persons in the Ministry of
. Justice, the Ministry of Trade and Industry;
“and the Supreme Court. These lawyers have
i «been able to provide general advisory services
i “and also specialist advice in certain cases, for
xample, during the passage of the Law on
‘ompanies and Partnerships. The technical
‘assistance has also financed overseas training
i “efor a limited number of Mongolian lawyers,

 

  

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Policy Advice and Assistance

 

Through its research and technical assistance activities, the Bank
helps to increase the countries’ understanding of the transition process
and its associated problems. In January 1992, the Bank approved a
technical assistance grant for PRC to support policy analysis in the
Ministry of Finance. In 1994, the PRC Government implemented a
comprehensive fiscal reform package that was fully consistent with the

 

  
 

 

and, jointly with the Asia Foundation, provided
’ training to members of the judiciary inthe new
“Civil Code. Laws on properly, the creation
and winding-up of business entities, contracts
and establishing a fair marketplace are now in
* place, as are laws governing more complex

 

issues, such as banking, securities, taxes and +

recommendations of the technical assistance. In late 1994, the Bank gave
its approval for a series of three regional studies on issues relevant to the
transitional economies. Two of the studies, on public finance and social
sector issues, ate being implemented. Follow-up assistance on revenuesharing reforms has been requested from the Bank by the governments
of Kazakhstan and Lao PDR.

The Bank also provides technical assistance to promote subregional

A “accounting. However, many of these newlaws
ql " still need to be refined and improved.“ °

ii The Bank has played @-leading role in
Ea helping the Governthent in iriprovihg the
1 ° fegal/regulatory framework in several areas,
} -such as telecommunications, civil aviation,
id ~ roads and power.

cooperation. Since 1992, the Bank has provided a number of grants for
the promotion of subregional economic cooperation within the Greater
Mekong subregion comprising Cambodia, PRC, Lao PDR, Myanmar,
Thailand and Viet Nam. A number of areas for cooperation were
identified, Sector studies or master plans completed as part of the
assistance have recommended over 100 subregional projects and
|) . j : initiatives. Many of these projects have progressed towards implementai tion with Bank support and through the initiatives of other donor ageni cies and the countries themselves.
| The Bank provides extensive technical assistance financing in
support of capacity building and institutional development. The successful
transition to a market economy requires new skills in accounting, computers, law and others that are not widely available in the present work force.
It also requires the creation or development of market-oriented institutions. The Bank has substantial expertise and experience in providing
assistance in areas such as legal reform, capital market development and
banking sector reforms. :
To strengthen legal capacity in the transitional economies, the Bank a
has financed a project to develop Mongolia’s legal framework (see Box i
10), phase Il of a project in Viet Nam for institutional strengthening of the 4
i

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Government's national office for procurement evaluation, and an industryECONOMIES IN TRANSITION: THE ASIAN EXPERIENCE

 

 

. * and trade sector study in the Kyrgyz Republic to identify policy-related,
egal and institutional constraints to the development of industry. In
* Mongolia, the Bank is financing a technical assistance to improve the
: “accounting and auditing systems, including the drafting of an audit law.
8 For several of the transitional economies of Asia, absorptive capacity
limited by a lack of experience with policies and procedures of external
“ agencies. In Cambodia, the Bank has provided technical assistance to
develop the planning capability in the Ministry of Public Works and

 

./, Transport. The Bank is also assisting to strengthen the capacity of

Kazakhstan’s Committee for the Utilization of Foreign Capital to manage
‘external aid flows. Seminars have been conducted in Kazakhstan on Bank

* policies and procedures. During the economic transition, public administration in the transitional economies of Asia faces new practical challenges that force changes from within. Extensive administrative reform is
Underway and the relative power of various agencies is being modified. In
support of these changes, the Bank often provides technical assistance
for the executing agencies of Bank loans.Economic Developments
in DMCs

The International Setting

 
 
 
  

HE WORLD economy sustained a reasonable level of economic
progress in 1995. However, there was a fair degree of diversity in the
performance of the main groups of countries. In the industrial countries,
growth was lower than in 1994, Anti-inflationary policies were pursued
early in the year in North America, and consumer confidence in Europe
weakened because of uncertain employment prospects.

Among the developing regions, Asia again took the lead, with a
growth rate more than twice that of any other region. African economies
also registered some modest progress. The performance of transitional
economies was mixed while that of Latin America deteriorated, partly as
the aftermath of the Mexican financial crisis.

 
   
   
   
   
   
   
     
    

Jie Bank has provided three loans totalling $213 million to improve telecommunications
GStructure in Pakistan.ANNUAL REPORT 1995

World Economic Growth Rates

Par Cent

 
 
 

   
 

 
     
 
   
      

* Developing Asia

Olhar Developing Counties

Industrialized Countries
1991 1992 1993 1994 1995

Inflation*

Por Cant
140

120

   
  
     

100

  

‘Cher Develop

ing Countries
(Gullsin Wesieen Hemlsghera)

   

80

60

Other Developing Countries

40 (cuiside Western Elemisphere)

20

1991 1992 1993 199!

Developing Asia
fndustrialized Countries

Q

* Refers ta consumer prices.

x2

 

    

The volume of world trade increased rapidly, particularly for developing countries. Export volumes in these countries grew strongly. This .
reflected the rapid growth of intraregional trade among developing Asian
economies as well as the revival of many transitional economies and
increased globalization. Nonfuel commodity prices generally remained at
the levels of the previous year. While this kept the terms of trade for
primary exporters relatively stable, it did little to reverse the vulnerability
of the external sectors in these countries, which include many of the
world’s poorest.

Among the industrial countries, the United States recorded an
estimated 2.1% growth in 1995, lower by more than a percentage point
than in 1994. The interest-sensitive components of aggregate demand
were adversely affected as monetary policy was tightened in response to
higher-than-sustainable growth toward the end of 1994. Housing
investment declined after a strong performance in the previous year.
Consumption grew more slowly. Durable goods purchases also weakened. Investment in plant and equipment continued to be the leading
sector, growing in double digits for the second year in a row. New
exports made a smaller net contribution to growth compared with the
previous year.

Japan, struggling to recover from its longest period of low growth in
postwar history, made some modest progress in 1995. GDP grew by less
than 1%. Consumer spending recorded only a modest increase. Output
continued to adjust to rising inventory levels. The situation was exacerbated by the Kobe earthquake, a sharp appreciation of the yen (especially
in the earlier patt of the year), and a decrease in prices, which influenced
business profitability. A series of measures were taken to stimulate the
economy. These included steps to correct the yen's appreciation, a cut in
the discount rate and a fiscal stimulus package providing for new public
works spending. The impact of these measures was only partially
reflected in the economic performance in 1995.

Economic performance in Germany was modest, with GDP growing
by around 2%. The main reason for the relatively low growth rate was
the continuing strength of the currency. This had an adverse impact on
exports and, in tum, on the industrial sector. Consumption growth was
slow. Economic growth was also influenced by continuing attempts at
fiscal consolidation while profit margins were squeezed by increasing
operating costs, mainly from higher wages. Investment spending was also
weak. Inflationary pressures were, however, low as the currency appre
ciation reduced the prices of both raw material and consumer goods
imports. In reaction to slower growth, monetary policy was eased. While
some response to the cut in interest rates was noticed in the interestsensitive components of aggregate demand during 1995, the full impact
of these measures is likely to be manifested more fully in 1996.

For the other countries of Europe, economic performance was
determined by a mixture of domestic and international factors. The
United Kingdom, which had experienced rapid growth in 1994, cooled
off ag a result of a successive tighiening of monetary policy. Overall
growth remained strong in some countries, such as France, which
maintained a growth rate of 2.7%. Inflation remained generally low
throughout the European Union, but unemployment was a persistent
problem for most European countries. g

Transitional economies with a record of decisive reform measures,
such as the Czech Republic, Hungary and Poland, registered strongpositive growth rates and made good progress in raising living standards,
reducing inflation, becoming competitive and restoring macroeconomic
stability. Other transitional economies also made considerable progress,
but their growth rates were either low or negative and significant imbalances remained.

Among developing regions outside Asia, the financial crisis in Mexico
at the beginning of the year had spillover effects on several other Latin
American countries. Economic performance in that region was adversely
affected. In Africa, there was significant progress in economies which had
undertaken liberalization measures and adopted market-oriented policies.
Nevertheless, many African countries still suffered from stagnant per
capita income levels and poor saving performance.

Overview of Developing Member Countries

The overall economic performance of the Bank's developing
member countries (DMCs) continued to be very good. With an improvement in the global trading environment, the export prospects of DMCs
improved considerably. Their general economic prospects were also good
because most of the countries continued to pursue prudent
macroeconomic policies and make progress in structural reforms and
economic deregulation. The DMCs’ currency and financial markets were
not affected much by the change in investor confidence after the Mexican
crisis. The sharp fluctuations in the exchange rates of major international
currencies also did not significantly affect their exports.

Economic growth remained brisk in the newly industrializing economies {NIEs), with Republic of Korea and Singapore performing exceptionally well. Southeast Asia was able to maintain its strong growth mainly
due to large inflows of foreign investment. Indonesia, Malaysia, Thailand
and Viet Nam registered growth rates within the range of 7.5%-9.5%.
After several years of slow economic performance, the Philippine
economy rebounded as a result of better macroeconomic management
and the introduction of sector-specific policy reforms. In South Asia, the
performance was mixed. India's growth rate of 6.2% did not change
significantly from 1994. Pakistan experienced a pick-up. Sri Lanka was
able to maintain its 1994 growth rate of 5.6%, while Bangladesh and
Nepal recorded a slowdown. The People’s Republic of China’s (PRC’s)
growth slowed a little in response to tight monetary and fiscal policies.
However, its growth rate still remained in the double digits’ Mongolia’s
growth rate picked up perceptibly during the year. The Central Asian
republics maintained their efforts at structural reforms. While they
continued to experience a contraction in their economic activities during
the year, the situation, however, has been progressively improving. The
overall economic performance of the Pacific developing member countries (PDMCs) remained weak, with GDP declining by 4.8% in Papua
New Guinea, the largest economy in the Pacific area.

Several DMCs were extremely successful in keeping inflation under
control. This was achieved through tight budgetary and monetary policies
and by accommodating a mild appreciation of the exchange rate.
Inflation was moderate in Republic of Korea, Malaysia, Singapore,
Taipei,China and Thailand. In PRC, Hong Kong, India, Indonesia,
Mongolia, Philippines, Viet Nam and the Central Asian republics, where
inflationary pressures remained a problem, the governments took strong

 

ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENTS IN DMCs

Index of Commodity Prices*

1990 = 100

160°

140+

100
60
1991

1407

120

 

eae
60
1991
160
ob
zo}
100
sob
\
1991
In current LISS.

1992

1992

Pais and Otis.

1993

1993"

   

vit
1g9¢

Jute

1994

Petroleum

1995.

 

1955

    
 

1995,ANNUAL REPORT 1995

Growth in Export Volumes

   
 
 

 
 
    

  
  

 

 

 

Por Cant
16
M peta
Developing Asia J Vee
wh
fe
10] SR ae
a
r Industrialized
e Countries
b o
Vs
4 O?” oiver Developing
|. H 3 ‘Countries
2 i
a
4
oO i
alt
1991 1992 1993 1994 1995

Growth in Import Volumes

Per Cont
be

ak Developing Asia 5s
cain a
12, ane

‘
\

Other Developing
Lf weaaser \
2

&

    
 

    

Industrialized
Countries

    
 
    

Nee

 

 

 

1991 1992 1993 1994 1995

Major {nterest Rates

Per Cent
or

10-Year US §
‘Treasury Notes gg

6-Month LIBOR

10Near Japanese
Goveramient Bonds

 

1991 1992 1993 1994 1995

MB a4

measures io abate inflationary pressures. The situation should improve
over the medium term.

Rapid expansion of exports and improved competitiveness of
domestic industries have been the distinct characteristics of the region's
economic success. Many DMCs took measures during the year to further
liberalize their foreign trade sectors. With an improved global trading
environment, Bangladesh, India, Republic of Korea, Malaysia, Myanmar,
Pakistan, Philippines, Singapore, Sri Lanka, Taipei,China, Thailand and
Viet Nam did well in their exports. Many of these economies also
liberalized their import regimes, which allowed imports to grow at a
healthy rate as economic growth gathered momentum. In some instances, trade deficits widened despite a healthy growth in exports.
However, barring a few exceptions, the current account deficits of most
DMCs remained sustainable. Many DMCs had also built up sizeable levels
of foreign exchange reserves. DMCs that were experiencing ternporary
balance-of-payments difficulties (e.g., Pakistan) took corrective measures.

The region’s economic scenario in the short to medium term appear
to be optimistic. The optimism is based on an anticipation of healthy
growth in global trade and the perception that DMC exports would not
be subject to ‘unfair’ restrictions in important markets. Equally importantly, DMCs have maintained their prudent macroeconomic stance and
continue to progressively deregulate their economies. However, while
several economies have made considerable progress in putting an
appropriate policy framework in place, the South Asian economies,
some economies in East Asia and economies in transition to a marketbased system still confront severe challenges.

Newly Industrializing Economies”

Economic Growth

Economic growth continued to be brisk in the NIEs. The average
GDP growth rate for the subgroup was 7.6% compared to 7.5% in
1994. However, Hong Kong's GDP growth weakened to 4.6% from
5.4% in 1994 mainly because of a softening of domestic demand.
Because of the Hong Kong dollar's linkage to the US dollar, the tightening of US monetary policy in late 1994 and in the early part of 1995
raised interest rates in Hong Kong, and this, along with other factors,
depressed the property and asset markets, Although interest rates were
lowered in the second half of the year, the cuts were modest and did little
to boost domestic demand. Due to the deceleration in growth, unemployment in Hong Kong increased io a ten-year high in 1995.

The Republic of Korea grew by 9.2% in 1995, its fastest growth
rate since 1990, The strong upswing was generated by continued. brisk
investment demand and strong export performance. The growth in
demand for equipment investment was led by capacity expansion in
heavy chemical, electronics, semiconductor and automobile sectors,
which are also major export sectors. As a result of rapid growth, unemployment fell to a historical low of under 2% of the labor force.

 

* Hong Keng, Repubilc of Korea, Singepore and Talpel,China.ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENTS IN DMCs

     
  
    
    
   

Singapore's economic vigor remained unabated, although its 8.9% Newly Industrializing Economies
GDP growth in 1995 was lower than the 10% average growth rate
recorded for the previous two years, The strong growth represented a GDP Growth Rates
continuation of the export-led economic expansion that Singapore had Per Cont
enjoyed since 1992, stimulated by a strong global demand for electronics yas
and complementary products. The economy also benefited from its role
as a regional hub for the Association of Southeast Asian Nations
(ASEAN). It is noteworthy that external demand remained strong despite 9
an appreciation of Singapore's currency in the first half of 1995. While
the growth of manufacturing output slipped a little in the first half, that of 8
services accelerated. In the second half, manufacturing output outpaced
the growth in services,

Taipei,China posted a GDP growth rate of 6.3%, against 6.5% in 6
1994, While the recovery in the industrial countries and a slight depreciation of the local currency helped exports, domestic demand remained
comparatively weak. Private consumption demand continued to expand, .
while public expenditure was depressed because the Government reduced 1991 1992 1993 1994 1995
its expenditure on goods and services to correct its large fiscal deficit. The :
industrial sector improved to 6.1% from the 1994 growth level of 5.7%
due to higher manufacturing and energy outputs. The services sector, on
the other hand, suffered from a weakness in the financial services sector so
and sluggish private consumption.

 

 

Changes in Consumer Prices

Inflation ; x
: a, YONG Kore
Inflation in the NIEs moderated to 4.8% from 5.7% in 1994. In 8 Hong Kong, inflation is to a large extent determined by its link to the
US dollar. The need for a real appreciation of the Hong Kong currency is
the predominant reason why its rate of domestic inflation in recent years
has been higher than that of many of its trading partners. In 1995,
inflation in Hong Kong, in terms of changes in the consumer price index +
(CPI), was 8.7%. Notwithstanding an increase in the unemployment rate, ise,
inflationary expectations appear to be ingrained in Hong Kong’s 2 .
economy. Civil service pay was raised by 10% in 1995 so that it could 1991 1992 1998 ba *°
keep pace with that in the private sector. It is noteworthy that in 1995
high inflation persisted in Hong Kong despite some softening of property
and other asset prices.
Despite strong growth, inflationary pressures were moderate in the
Republic of Korea. At 4.5%, the growth of the consumer price index °
was lower than 6.2% in 1994. The demand pressure was lower due to
the presence of spare capacity in some sectors. More importantly, wage
increases were moderate and accompanied steady increases in
productivity.
Singapore has traditionally combated domestic inflation through the
use of its exchange rate policy and through the discretion the Government exercises over wage bonuses. In 1995, consumer price inflation
dropped to around 3.2% from 3.8% in 1994. The temporary effect of
the introduction of a goods and services tax in 1994 had worked itself out
during the year. Inflation was further dampened by an appreciation of the
Singapore dollar.
In Taipei,China, consumer price inflation fell to 3.7% from 4.1% in
1994. Weak domestic demand contributed to the deceleration.

Republic of Korea

le
yeANNUAL REPORT 1995

Newly Industrializing Economies

Current Account Balance (Per Cent of GDP)

 

     

12
se ff
afl

“Sag it {una
ab

SURI reyes
Repubite of Korva

 

1991 1992 1993 1994 1995

 

External Sector

A substantial proportion of Hong Kong’s trade is in the form of
“reexports.” These are goods that are imported to Hong Kong for
onward shipment to other destinations. In 1995, reexports from Hong
Kong rose by 19% in value terms, largely as a result of Hong Kong’s
strong entrepét relationship with PRC. Domestic exports, however, grew
by 5% in real terms, Thus, aggregate merchandise exports grew by
16.7%. Against this, merchandise imports registered a growth of 17.8%,
causing Hong Kong’s trade balance to slip further into deficit. While no
data for Hong Kong’s current account are available, it is likely that a
surplus on the services account more than offset the trade deficit in
1995, leading to a current account surplus.

In the Republic of Korea, exports grew by 32%, about double the
previous year’s rate of increase. The rapid expansion was due mainly to
the strength of the yen and an improvement in the global trading environment. However, imports grew by 33%, resulting in deficits in both overall
trade and current accounts, The current account deficit nearly doubled in
dollar terms, although, as a proportion of GDP, it increased from 1% in
1994 to 1.9%.

Singapore’s robust export growth over the past 15 years continued
in 1995. Merchandise exports grew by 15.5% and imports by 18%
Exports of electronic items remained particularly strong. The current
account surplus rose to around $14 billion, equivalent to 16% of GDP.

Taipei,China’s nominal exports grew by 20.5% in 1995, while
imports grew by 22% over the previous year. The current account
surplus, however, rose to $7.2 billion from $6.2 billion a year ago.
Taipei,China’s integration with the economies of Hong Kong and
People’s Republic of China was further strengthened in 1995, Hong
Kong surpassed the United States as Taipei, China’s largest trading
partner.

Domestic Policies

There were no significant policy changes in Hong Kong in 1995.
The budgetary policy continued io be prudent and there were no financial
pressures for spending on current and pending infrastructure investments. The Government did not stimulate the economy as a method of
dealing with rising unemployment. The major task facing policymakers
was to moderate the inflationary expectations that prevented inflation
from slowing despite falling property prices and a deceleration in economic activity.

Liberalization of the financial sector was at the top of the policy
agenda in the Republic of Korea. Measures to further deregulate the
current and capital accounts of the balance of payments were introduced
in 1995, The ceilings that apply to foreign investments were relaxed.
Some of the bank lending rates were deregulated. An unemployment
insurance scheme, to be financed through employees’ and employers’
contributions, was introduced.

In Singapore, the Government's fiscal program remained prudent
and the fiscal balance was in surplus. In an attempt to deal with large
accumulated budget surpluses, the Government resorted to a variety of
schemes to upgrade and encourage investment. The monetary authorities
continued to support a strong local currency, which led to a downward

 

juevesBi
w
4,
Pr
)
om:
all
in
1
ed
cial
4
ed
at |
tes 2
I |
4

 

 

ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENTS IN DMCs

revision of inflation forecasts. Southeast Asian Economies
In Taipei,China, the financial sector came under some pressure as

a result of asset price deflation. Partly as a response to this, measures GDP Growth Rates

were introduced in 1995 to bolster Taipei,China’s flagging property Per Cent

market. Restrictions on property development were lifted and first-time 107

homebuyers were offered loans at below market rates.

Southeast Asia* §

 

Economic Growth

Overall, Southeast Asia achieved a 7.9% economic growth, against
7.8% in 1994, Brisk domestic demand and strong exports, bolstered by
large inflows of foreign investment, continued to support the strong :
economic performance in almost all Southeast Asian countries. 1991 1992 19981994 1995

Indonesia's 7.6% growth in 1995 was about the same as in the
preceding year. The achievement was based on the strength of industrial
and infrastructure-related activities, such as electricity and gas. The Or
agriculture sector also contributed to the uptrend, following the relatively

    
   

poor performance in 1994, when floods and droughts hit certain parts of sp tes

the country. On the demand side, growth was spurred by strong con- fe Pel

sumption and investment demand. se Seater
Malaysia's GDP growth was sustained at the high average rate of | 0

almost 9% for the last eight years. Growth in 1995 improved to 9.3% 4 A Phitmpinas

from 9.2% in 1994, fueled by a rapid increase in manufacturing output '

(13%) and manufactured exports (28%). Performance wes also strong in 2b

the agriculture sector (due to a significant expansion in palm oil and

rubber), oil and gas, construction, public utilities, and transport and 8

 

communications.

Continuing the economic upturn that started a couple of years back,
the Philippines’ GDP grew 4.8% in 1995, against 4.4% in 1994.
Despite the poor performance of the agriculture sector, overall output
growth improved due to considerable expansion of the industrial sector,
mainly construction. Encouraged by structural reforms, greater reliability
of power supply and improvement in the policy environment, private
investment picked up sharply in 1995. There was also a significant
increase in the inflow of foreign direct investment. .

Thailand's economic performance remained strong, although the
8.6% GDP growth in 1995 was marginally lower than 8.7% in the
previous year. The growth stemmed mainly from an expansion in private
and public consumption, and a strong demand for investment and
exports. With the Government's vigorous effort to expand infrastructure
facilities, the overall investment level increased to 40% of GDP.

In Viet Nam, the economy continued to perform well. GDP grew by
9.5% in 1995, slightly higher than the 8.8% registered during the
Previous year. The expansion was led by the industry sector (which |
experienced a 14.2% growth), particularly by large-scale, centrally owned
State enterprises in import-substituting heavy industries. The agriculture
sector posted a relatively modest but satisfactory growth of 4.7%

1991 1992 1993 1994 1995

 

Cambocia, Indonesia, Lao People's Democratic Republic, Malaysia, Myanmar, Pailippines, Thaiand
ane Viet Nam. Singapore is *reated under ‘Newly Industrielizing Economies.”

a7ANNUAL REPORT 1995

Southeast Asian Economies In Cambodia, growth accelerated to 7.5% from the previous year’s
4%, due mainly to improved weather conditions and better
macroeconomic management.

al Per Cont Lao People’s Democratic Republic (Lao PDR) achieved a
180 :

i Changes in Consumer Prices

  

   
  
    

 

GDP growth of 7.1% in 1995, against 8.1% in 1994. The slowdown
| 160 was due mainly to unfavorable weather conditions which affected the
j 40k agriculture sector.
lel Real GDP in Myanmar grew by 7.7%, against 6.8% in 1994, Both
: oF the agriculture and industry sectors improved on their 1994 perforii 1007 mance, achieving growth rates of 7.3% and 11.4%, respectively. There
20} - was a sharp increase in manufacturing growth from 9% to over 13%.
60} ‘
‘ Inflation
' OF
zo} | ; With an acceleration of economic growth in the Southeast Asian
3 Es eee fs subregion, the average inflation rate rose to 7.4%, against 7% in 1994.
1991 1992 1993 1995 Inflationary pressures were mainly the result of buoyant private and
government spending. This was aggravated by higher prices for agricul| Por Cent ture products as harvests in several countries suffered from unfavorable
pa 180 weather condifions.
‘| ‘el ‘The inflation rate in Indonesia increased to 9.4% from 8.5% in
BF 1994. An expansion in economic activity arising from strong consumply Mor tion and investment spending, and a rise in food prices accounted for the
320 higher inflation.
300+ Malaysia's inflation was the lowest among the countries of the
subregion, The 3.4% rate in 1995 was even slightly lower than the 3.7%
80 Fi . 5
increase in the preceding year. Prudent fiscal and monetary policy helped
60 Savi Psi rein in the inflationary pressures despite strong economic growth and a
aof Sy Mewarmar_Pitippines Thelend tight labor market.
a ‘ i Inflation moderated in the Philippines to about 8% as compared to

20

   

9.1% in 1994, despite the failure of the rice crop due to bad weather and
it 1991 192 ===«083SS:«iSSMSC «N89 an accommodating monetary policy.
H In Thailand, the inflation rate increased to 5.8% compared to 5.1%
| in 1994, The Bank of Thailand introduced several monetary and prudeniy . tial measures to control money supply and ease the pressure on domestic
i” prices.
I Viet Nam’s inflation rate decreased to 12.7% from 14.4% in 1994.
ja j Efforts to contain inflation through relatively more stringent monetary
im . targets were not particularly successful because of unfavorable weather
conditions affecting the prices of primary commodities.

In Cambodia, the consumer price index rose by only 3.5%, which
was a substantial improvement from the 26.1% inflation in 1994.

Lao PDR experienced a 19% inflation in 1995, compared to 6.7%
in 1994, as aggregate demand rose as a result of expansionary monetary
and fiscal policies.

In the case of Myanmar, prices rose by about 24.7% in Yangon,
the only city in the country for which price indices are available.

 

 

External Sector

Despite the subregion’s continued rapid growth in exports, several
Southeast Asian DMCs registered higher import growth rates, primarily
of capital goods. Thus, there was a deterioration in the current account
balance in some instances.Indonesia's exports showed an increase of 11.1% in 1995, with
expansion in both oil and nonoil exports. Simultaneously, with an
expansion in the demand for capital goods, raw materials and consumption goods, imports grew by 23.1%. The current account deficit deteriorated to $8 billion from $2.8 billion in 1994.

Malaysia continued to benefit from large inflows of foreign capital,
and the surplus on the capital account more than covered the current
account deficit of almost $7.6 billion (8.9% of GNP). Although exports
grew by more than 26%, the trade balance was in deficit for the first time
since 1982. The deficit on the services account was also large as the
massive foreign direct investmenis since the 1980s resulted in increasing
outflows of profits.

Helped by economic reform measures which reduced the anti-export
bias, the Philippines experienced an impressive 28.9% growth in
exporis. However, due to increased economic activity and possibly due to
the high import intensity of exports such as electronics and garments,
imports grew by more than 24%. Thus, the trade deficit worsened to
over $9 billion. Nevertheless, an increase in net services income and in
overseas workers’ remittances was sufficient to contain the current
account deficit to about $2 billion.

In recent years, investment aimed at improving the productive
capacity has increased Thailand's export potential. As a result,
Thailand's exports grew by over 24% in 1995, compared to 22.2% in
1994. However, imports also rose by.a strong 28% as the demand for
capital goods rose for government-commissioned infrastructure projects.
The current account deficit widened to 7.5% of GDP.

Viet Nam also recorded a significant growth of about 45% in
exports. The success was partly the result of policy measures adopted by

. the Government to ease infrastructure bottlenecks and improve the

management of state-run enterprises. On the other hand, imports grew at
a much faster pace (58%} and the current account deficit deteriorated
further to $1.7 billion, against $1 billion in 1994.

Cambodia’s exports registered a hefty increase of 55.7% despite a
ban on log exports. However, with imports recording a high 52%
growth, the trade deficit increased to 11.3% of GDP, compared io 9.3%
in 1994, The current account deficit also increased to 13.2% of GDP
from 11.6% a year ago.

Is Lao PDR, the current account deficit was estirnated at 11.4% of
GDP, against 15% in 1994. Export growth was lower at 15.8% due io a
slowdown in the exports of forest products. The growth of imports
dropped substantially to 4.1% in 1995 from 30.6% in 1994.

Exports of Myanmar grew by 25.6%, while imporis recorded a
12.6% growth. The country has suffered from a lack of diversification in
its exports of nontraditional items. The current account showed a deficit
of $311 million.

Domestic Policies

Most Southeast Asian countries continued to face challenges posed
by rapid economic growth and large inflows of foreign investment. In
addition, the fast-growing economies faced infrastructure bottlenecks and
escalating factor and consumer prices. In response, the governments
pursued various structural reform measures and prudent macroeconomic
Management. .

 

 

ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENTS IN DMCs

Southeast Asian Economies
Current Account Balance (Per Cent of GDP)ANNUAL REPORT 1995

HA so

 

Engineer at work
at the Bank-funded
Sungat Piah
hydropower station
in Malaysia.

 

In Indonesia, the Government continued to pursue economic
policies that permit only a moderate growth in monetary supply. Its
intention was to stabilize prices in light of rapid economic growth.
Towards the end of the year, a bill was passed to improve the legal
framework for the development of the domestic capital market. Further
progress was made in deregulating investment and reforming the banking
and financial sectors.

Malaysia maintained its conservative fiscal policy which has led to
the emergence of a budget surplus since 1993 following a continuous
decline in the budget deficit since 1989. A number of tax reforms were
implemented, including lower corporate and personal income tax rates
and the abolition of import duty and/or sales tax on 1,500 items. To
solve the problem of shortage of skilled labor, the Government pledged
substantial resources for the development of education.

The Philippines continued to implement structural reforms and
policy initiatives to enhance its competitiveness in the world market. The
Government resolutely pursued policy measures to liberalize foreign
trade, encourage private sector investment and deregulate the foreign
exchange market. The Central Bank exercised prudence in monetary
management. Fiscal consolidation was strengthened by a tightening of
expenditure and a reduction in government borrowings.

Thailand's economic policies during the year were focused on
financial sector reforms, the adoption of a conservative monetary policy
and issues relating to human development. In February, a Comprehensive Financial System Plan was adopted to: (i) improve the mobilization of
both domestic and foreign savings; (ii) promote competitiveness within
the financial sector; (iii) enhance the role of Thailand as a regional
financial center; (iv) channel more credit to the countryside; and (v) move
toward compliance with the new world trade rules in preparation for
opening the country's financial sector to international competition.

* Viet Nam entered a new phase in its transition to a market-oriented
economy. Economic reforms were complemented by public administration reforms. The Government successfully completed the first year of a
three-year enhanced structural adjustment facility supported by the
International Monetary Fund (IMF) and reached an understanding with
IMF on the second year of the same facility. Among the key policy
measures introduced in 1995 were: (i) tax and tariff reforms; (ii) state
enterprise reform involving the provision of a legal framework for
corporatization, equitization and improved corporate governance;

(iti) mergers of overlapping agencies; and {iv) adoption of a civil code to
enhance economic and social activities under a market-oriented
economy. .

Cambodia’s broad economic concern during the year was to
consolidate the gains made after the Policy Framework Paper for 19941996 was put in place.

Lao PDR pursued efforts to sustain structural adjustment reforms,
mainly to control public expenditure, broaden the revenue base and
improve the balance-of- payments position.

In Myanmar, the process of transformation from a centrally
planned economy to a market-oriented economy began in the late
1980s. Major policy initiatives taken in that direction have included the
deregulation of government control in the agriculture sector; the opening
up of foreign trade, including border trade, to the private sector; an
open-door policy for foreign direct investment; and permission for private

 

isi tier eroag

of

w

 

   

financial institutions to operate. The system of forced government
procurement of major crops has been abolished and the domestic
marketing and processing of crops have been liberalized. In the industry
sector, al] subsectors have been opened up to the private sector except oil
and gas extraction and the mining of gems.

South Asia*

Economic Growth

South Asia’s average economic growth was maintained at the 5.8%
rate achieved in 1994. Largely in response to economic liberalization
measures introduced since the early 1990s, several economies achieved
high growth in manufacturing. Performance in agriculture varied substantially as some countries, such as Bhutan and Pakistan, did well while
others were adversely affected by poor weather.

GDP growth in Bangladesh fell slightly to 4.1% from 4.2% in
1994, as unfavorable weather conditions affected agriculture. Foodgrain
production declined by 5.7%. However, industry achieved a healthy 8.5%
growth, primarily due to the improved performance of the manufacturing, construction, and gas and power subsectors. The services sector
grew by 5.9% due to increased activity in transportation, communications, banking and insurance.

India has made significant economic progress since it began its
liberalization program in 1991. Real GDP grew by 6.2% in 1995,
against 6.3% in 1994. There was a sharp 12% growth in the industry
sector, compared to 8.3% in 1994, due mainly to a strong demand for
capital goods. The growth of the agriculture sector decelerated to 0.5%
from 4.9% in 1994.

The rate of GDP growth in Nepal slowed to 2.3% in 1995, mainly
because of a decline in agricultural output. Though cash crop and
livestock production increased, food crop was seriously affected by
drought conditions. The growth in manufacturing was also much lower
than in the previous year.

Pakistan’s GDP recorded a 4.7% growth in 1995, compared to
3.8% in 1994. The agriculture sector performed well and grew by 4.9%,
while output growth in the manufacturing sector slowed down. In
December, the Government entered into a 15-month standby credit
arrangement with IMF to correct macroeconomic imbalance and improve
the fiscal situation. .

Sri Lanka's economy grew by 5.6%, the same rate as in 1994. The
industry sector remained buoyant. However, its 8% growth in 1995 was
lower than the rates in the previous two years. The agriculture sector's
growth decelerated to 2.3%, against 3.3% in 1994, due mainly to civil
disturbances in the northeastern part of the country.

Bhutan recorded a GDP growth of 5.5%, against 6.5% in 1994.
Increased construction activity and the commissioning of export-oriented
ferro-alloy and cement projecis influenced the higher growth rate.

Real GDP growth in Maldives slipped to 5.8%, against 6.6% in the

 

 

Afghanistan, Bangladesh, Bhitan, India, Maldives, Nepal, Pakistan and Sri Lanka.

ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENTS IN DMCs

Selected South Asian Economies
GDP Growth Rates

 

1991 1992 1993 1994 1995,ANNUAL REPORT 1995

a

Selected South Asian Economies

Changes in Consumer Prices

   
    
   
 

Maldives

Hungiadests
1991 1992 1993 1994 1995

Per Cent
22

Pakistan

1991 1992 ‘1993 1994 1995

BB 2

earlier year. The slowdown reflected the structural adjustment measure
being pursued by the Government as well as the sluggish performance of
the fisheries sector. Poor fish catches in early 1995 and large stock levels
in the frozen fish export market combined to depress fishing activity.

Inflation

Higher economic growth, adverse weather conditions and accommodating monetary and fiscal policies exerted pressure on prices in South
Asia. Average inflation for the subregion was 9.8% in 1995, against
9.9% in 1994.

- Inflation in Bangladesh jumped from 3.3% in 1994 to 8.9% as a
result of rising foodgrain prices.

In India, inflation declined to 9.5% from 10.1% in 1994 due toa
tightening of monetary policies.

In Nepal, inflation eased to 7.6%, against 8.9% in 1994, due
mainly to a coniractionary monetary policy.

Inflationary pressures remained strong in Pakistan. The consumer
price index rose by 12.9% compared to the original target of 7%. Food
prices rose particularly sharply. An increase in prices of several imported
commodities and relaxed monetary and fiscal policles were primarily
responsible for the higher inflation.

In Si Lanka, the inflation rate fell marginally to 7.7% from 8.4% in
1994 as a result of lower import duties and taxes, and a reduction in the
administered prices of several commodities.

Consumer prices rose by 8.6% in Bhutan, against 8.2% in 1994.
However, inflationary pressures in the country have eased considerably
since the early 1990s.

Maldives was able to reduce its inflation rate to 7.7% from the
double-digit levels experienced since 1991. The main reason for this
success was the slowdown in monetary growth,

External Sector

The balance of payments of several South Asian countries deteriorated in 1995. While exports were generally healthy, imports surged
strongly due to higher income growth and as a consequence of the
liberalization measures undertaken over the last few years. DMCs with
large current account deficits undertook corrective measures.

Exports from Bangladesh grew by a record 37% after a poor
performance in 1994. This was due mainly to a strong growth in the
readymade garments sector. However, imports grew by an even higher
rate of 39%, which turned the current account balance from a surplus of
1.1% to a deficit of 0.5% of GDP in 1995.

In India, exports registered a 21% growth on top of an 18%
increase ih the previous year. But a higher level of economic activity and
lower import tariffs led to an import growth of 26.7%. As a result, the
cutrent account deficit increased from $2.3 billion in 1994 to $5 billion.

Nepal's current account deficit widened to 6.5% of GDP from 4.4%
in 1994 because of a rapid growth in imports and a slowdown in the
export of carpets and garments, the country’s two major export iterns.
The balance of payments came under considerable pressure, and gross
official reserves fell to less than six months of imports of goods and
services, the lowest level in several years.: Pakistan's exports grew by 17.9% after experiencing a 1.4%
© gecline. in the previous yeas. Merchandise imports recorded an increase
of 16.7%, due mainly to larger imports of food items, machinery,
“‘anemicals and petroleum products. The invisibles account ofthe balance
of payments, however, deteriorated. As a result, the current account
deficit deteriorated to 3.5% of GDP, compared to 3.2% in the previous
an Sri Lanka experienced a 20.3% increase in its exports, while
imports grew by 18.6%. The current account deficit was estimated at
'.4% of GDP.

Bhutan's exports grew by about 6%, while imports increased by
169. The current account deficit, as a percentage of GDP, was about
6%.

Maldives’ export performance in 1995 was somewnat lower than
the previous year because of stagnant fish exports. The overall import
and remained strong. Consequenily, the current account deficit rose

 

mestic Policies

Although the macroeconomic indicators in Bangladesh have
iorated recently, structural reforms continued during 1995. The
ing deregulation and liberalization process is helping create a
.impetitive economy. However, public enterprise reforms, including the
atization of public enterprises, progressed at a slow pace. In the area
ade policy reforms, the Government reduced the average unweighted
inal tariff. But greater emphasis needs to be given to make customs
dures transparent and simple.
India, more public enterprises were divested under the
nment’s ongoing policy reforms. Further tariff reforms as well as
liberalization of the telecommunications sector remained on the cards.
forms of the exchange rate regime were also under consideration. To
tain the economic performance achieved during the year, India needs
crease domestic saving and investment. Slow progress in fiscal
solidation and rigidities in factor markets are among the worrying
ors.
Economic liberalization. in Nepal did not make much progress
during the year. However, the export tax was reduced, the income and
He corporate tax rates were lowered; the wealth tax was abolished, and the
highly distor‘ionary local taxes were proposed io be replaced by locally
administered taxes. The Government is fully committed to introduce the
+) Value-added tax in 1996,
2 Although structural and macroeconomic reforms initiated in
‘. Pakistan in the early 1990s continued during the year, the budget and
tariff reforms announced in mid-1995 did not meet the IMF targets.
Other reforms undertaken included the privatization of state-owned
enterprises and further deregulation of the economy. In November, the
Government announced measures to address the country’s
macroeconomic difficulties. The Pakistani rupee was devalued by 7% visa-vis the US dollar. Import duties were increased along with an upward
revision in interest rates. A 15-month IMF standby program was
negotiated in December.
In the light of ongoing civil disturbances in the northern and eastern
parts of Sri Lanka, the Government adopted a passive approach to

 

 

 

 
 

 

 

ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENTS IN DMCs

Selected South Asian Economies

Current Account Balance (Per Cent of GDP)

 

 

28 Lt
1991 1982 2993 1994 1995

 

 

1991 1992 1983 2994 ‘1998ANNUAL REPORT 1995

   
 

economic policy during 1995 and pursued an active role to stop the civil

conflict, The budget for 1995 was aimed al containing inflation within

single digit, reducing the budget deficit and achieving sirong economic

growth. However, with the escalation of hostilities, defense expenditure

increased. It was financed partly through an increase in the defense levy

from 3.5% to 4.5%. As a result, the budget deficit remained at the same A

level as in 1994, or about 10% of GDP. |
Maldives faces a range of development challenges. Despite the fast \

growth of its economy, macroeconomic balances are now seriously out of

alignment. This has led to escalating debt, high inflation, an overvalued

nominal exchange rate, and low foreign exchange reserves. A major

requirement is to Improve fiscal management and substantially reduce the

fiscal deficit, which reached 10.9% of GDP in 1995 Making the transi
tion from a highly regulated economy to one in which the private sector

is allowed a freer role is the major development challenge ahead.

 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
   
   
 
   
   
 
 
   
  

 

 

People’s Republic of China and Mongolia

Economic Growth

PRC's 1995 GDP growth rate of 10.2% was slightly lower than the
11.8% growth in 1994 and reflected the tight fiscal and monetary
policies the Government continued to enforce to control inflation. The
growth rate, however, remained among the highest in the world, The
slight slowdown in 1995 was caused by a further reduction in fixed asset
investment, which had traditionally driven economic growth in PRC. A
tighter screening of investments and stronger Central Government
control over the banking sector curtailed speculative investment in real
estate and the stock market.

Agricultural output increased due to better climatic conditions, while
adjustments in the purchasing price of grains by 40% and that of cotton
by 60% provided the incentive for expanding production. The agriculture
sector grew by 4.5% in 1995, compared to 4% in 1994.

Industrial output was affected by the tight monetary and fiscal
policies and the lagged effect of slower investment, especially by stateowned enterprises. Despite this, industrial output grew by 13.6%, against
17.4% in 1994, This robust growth exerted strains on electricity,
transportation and communications facilities.

Mongolia recorded a remarkable 6.3% growth in GDP, against
2.3% in 1994. This was based on a 16.2% growth in industry, 5.7%
growth in agriculture and 1.5% growth in services. The development of
the private sector and the liberalization of the trade regime markedly
improved the supply situation in the country. Agricultural output increased despite some decline in the area under cultivation. Industrial
growth was broadbased, with output declining in only three of 12
subsectors. The growth in the services sector almost exclusively reflected
increased private sector activity.

PRC and Mongolia
GDP Growth Rates

Inflation

 

 

 

 

 

po
12 =
1991 1992 3993 1994 1995

Inflation in PRC was 14.38%, slightly below the targeted rate of 15%
announced at the beginning of the year and well below the high rate of

 

154ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENTS IN DMCs

 

. 21.7% experienced in 1994. The rate declined steadily by about 1.1%
per month, reflecting tigher monetary control, the reimposition of
administrative controls over some food prices and the curtailment of
public investment projects in mid-1995,

Mongolia recorded a 56.8% inilation rate, against 87.6% in 1994.
A further contraction in government expenditure and tighter credit
ceilings on commercial banks are necessary so that private investment
can grow at a faster rate without aggravating inflationary pressures.

External Trade

Continued progress in trade and foreign exchange reforms boosted
PRC’s total trade on a customs basis by 18.6% to $235 billion. Exports
were up by 23% to $126.2 billion, while imports rose by 14% to
$108.6 billion. This resulted in a merchandise trade surplus of
$17.5 billion. Foreign-funded enterprises accounted for about 28% of
PRC’s total trade value. The current account surplus more than doubled
to $16.5 billion, compared to $6.5 billion in 1994. The services account
of PRC's balance of payments, however, showed a deficit in 1995.
Realized foreign direct investment increased by 11% to reach $37 billion,
reflecting continued investor confidence in PRC’s economy.

Export earnings in Mongolia rose by 23%, but were outpaced by a
28% growth in imports. Capital goods and energy imports comprised

In PRC, the wideranging policy reforms, covering agriculture, stateowned enterprises, financial and fiscal affairs, trade and social welfare,
announced at the Fourteenth Party Congress in November 1993,
‘continued to be implemented during the year. In early 1995, the Government announced a comprehensive program to improve the agriculture
sector and the rural economy. Under the program, grain output is to be
increased, arable land is to be protected from nenagricultural uses, lowyielding land is to be improved to deost output, farm infrastructure is to
be upgraded and more government funds are to be appropriated for
investment in agriculture.

In the financial sector, a major achievement was the ratification of
the Central Bank Law in March. This law aims at establishing a strong
central bank for effectively conducting monetary policy and supervising
the financial system. The Commercial Bank Law, which became effective
on 1 July, will further strengthen the role of the People’s Bank of China
as the central bank and main regulator of the commercial banking sector.

In order to deepen reforms as well as to facilitate PRC’s early entry
into the World Trade Organization, the Government announced a 30%
reduction in tari#f levels on 4,000 items in November 1995. Tight fiscal
and monetary policies continued to be enforced, which helped reduce
aggregate demand, boost exports and ease inflationary pressures. In
October, the Government released a basic framework for the formulation
of the Ninth Five-Year Plan (1996-2000). The central thrust of the nine
guiding principles contained in the document is the continued implementation of reforms to transform PRC into a socialist market economy.

 

PRC and Mongolia

Changes in Consumer Prices

Par Cent

 

1991 1992 1993 1994 1995

PRC and Mongolia

Current Account Balance (Pér Cent of GDP)

 

1992 1992 1993 1996 1995ANNUAL REPORT 1995

   

Central Asian Republics
GDP Growth Rates

Por Cent

   
  
    

   

GFP
ff sss

a2 Kazakhstan

“16
-20
24,

-30

 

 

Mongolia was able to maintain macroeconomic stability and
improve fiscal balances, with sorne help from favorable international
circumstances. This was a considerable achievement. Net lending to stateowned enterprises was substantially reduced. A 20% cut by all budgetary
agencies on purchases of goods and services and a 60% increase in
urban transport fares were announced in September. Borrowing from
the Bank of Mongolia was also brought down. Expansion of commercial
credit was brought under control through an agreement between the
Bank of Mongolia and commercial banks.

Central Asian Republics”

Economic Growth

Since achieving independence in 1991, the Central Asian republics’
transition from a command system to an economy based on market
competition has met with serious difficulties. Production in these couniries generally suffered during the period as regular supplies of inputs
were interrupted by the breakup of the former Soviet Union.

In Kazakhstan, real GDP continued to decline in 1995, although at
a slightly lower rate (8.9%) than in earlier years. Sectorwise, both industry
and services experienced losses as value-added decreased by an average
rate of nearly 8% and 3%, respectively. The output contraction was
particularly felt in heavy industry following the collapse of the Soviet
military-industrial system. Agricultural output had fallen by an average
rate of 12% during the 1992-1994 period. In 1995, the harvest of
important grains showed declines in the range of 22%-33% relative to
1994, which adversely affected the overall performance of the agriculture
sector. Poor weather was also a contributory factor,

Real GDP of the Kyrgyz Republic showed a smaller decline of
6.2% in 1995. Agriculture, which accounted for almost 46% of GDP,
posted a more modest decline of 2%, against a 17% decline experienced
in 1994. The output of heavy industry was adversely affected by energy
shortages, unavailability of primary inputs and tight credit. The construc:
tion industry also performed poorly.

In Uzbekistan, GDP decline has been modest and the degree of
economic and social disruption has been small. In the period from 1991
to 1995, GDP declined by about 4%. Output contracted by only 2.7% in
1995. The limited contraction was the result of a sharp increase in oil
and grain production, a buoyant world market for cotton and the slower
pace of economic reform that minimized economic dislocation,

Inflation

Both Kazakhstan and Kyrgyz Republic made good progress in
achieving price stability, and the inflation rate fell rapidly in 1995.
However, these economies remained cautious about the vulnerability of
prices to renewed upward pressures. Kazakhstan had experienced
hyperinflation between 1992 and 1994, when the inflation rate stayed
above 1,500%. The rate dropped to about 176% in 1995.

 

* Kazakhstan, Kyrgyz Republic and Uzbekistan.In the Kyrgyz Republic, the average inflation rate was above
1,000% during 1992 and 1993. As a result of efforts by the authorities
to moderate inflation, the rate was brought down to 278% in 1994 and
to 42% in 1995.

In both countries, the governments remained committed to maintain
low inflation as an integral part of macroeconomic reforms. In particular,
the establishment of national currencies, the substantial completion of
price liberalization and the development of new instruments for monetary
contro! helped reduce inflationary pressures.

Inflation has been a serious problem in Uzbekistan. Imported
inflation caused »rices to soar in 1992 and 19983 since ihe country
remained in the ruble zone and money supply was increased to finance
large fiscal deficits. However, inflation was reduced to 516% in 1995 asa
result of tighter monetary and fiscal policies.

External Sector

The extemal accounts of the Central Asian republics remained weak
as the breakup of the payrnent mechanism, falling aggregate demand and
adjustments related to the implementation of economic reforms presented serious difficulties to regional trade, The merchandise trade deficit
in Kazakhstan wes over $900 million in 1995, about the same level as
ir. 1994, representing close to 7% of GDP. However, in spite of the large
deficit, the current level of imports would be inadequate to support the
economy during a period of recovery, when positive growth resumes.

. The current account deficit was almost at the same level as the trade
deticit, or just over 7% of GDP.

' The Kyrgyz Republic ran a trade deficit averaging around $100
million in both 1994 and 1995. Imports increased by almost 26%, of
which almost two-thirds were obtained from the former Soviet Union
countries. Exports registered a relatively modest annual increase of 7.6%,
but this wes a significant recovery from the depressed situation in 1992
when exports had contracted by more than 90%. Because of official
grants, the current account deficit was slightly smaller than the trade
deficit, or about 8% of GDP.

Uzbekistan has not experienced any severe balance-of-payments
difficulties. In fact, the external sector underwent an encouraging turmaround between 1993 and 1995. The trade balance moved from deficit
to surplus and the current account deticit fell from nearly 12% of GDP in
1992 to less than 3% in 1995. This enabled the country to build up
foreign exchange reserves, which currently stand at a comfortable six
months of import cover.

Domestic Policies

Kazakhstan's immediate concern is to implement the current
macrostabilization program that has been drawn up with the support of
IMF through a standby arrangement approved on 5 June 1995. This
Program focuses on containing inflation and improving the external and
fiscal positions through tight monetary and fiscal policies.

The Kyrgyz Republic continued its broad macroeconomic stabilization program. The Government made further progress in dismantling the
state order system in the agriculture sector. Action was taken to develop
an international payments mechanism. Restrictions on international trade

ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENTS IN DMCs

 

Central Asian Republics

Changes in Consumer Prices

Per Cent
2,008

1,600
1,200

200

 

1991, i992 1993 1994 +1995

Current Account Balance (Pe: Cent of GDP)

Per Cent
4

 
 
  

Gebobietoes

    
  
 

Kyy

 

Republic

Kazakhstan

  

1991 1992 1993 1994. 1995ANNUAL REPORT 1995

 

Selected Pacific Economies

GDP Growth Rates

Per Cont
20

16

 

8 8
1991 1992 1993 1994 3995

 

 

 

 

 

were largely eliminated. Other measures were adopted to improve lhe
allocation of resources through concerted efforts; undertake enlerprise
reforms, including the privatization of large state enterprises, and
strengthen the banking sector to make funds available on commercial
terms and facilitate domestic and international paymenis.

Uzbekistan has adopted a gradualist approach to structural reform
and has proceeded cautiously on price liberalization, privatization and the
dismantling of the stafe order system. Nevertheless, a major improvement
in fiscal performance has been achieved as a result of measures undertaken to increase revenue. These include a value-added tax, import duties
and a strengthening of the tax administration, In 1995, the Government
started an ambitious program of structural reform and adjustment
designed in consultation with the World Bank and IMF.

Pacific DMCs*

Economic Growth

In 1995, GDP growth among the Pacific DMCs (PDMCs) was in
most cases lower than in 1994, Western Samoa was one exception.
Following a contraction of 7.8% in 1994, when its main crop, taro, was
devastated, the economy achieved a 6.7% GDP growth in 1995. A sharp
recovery in exports of coconut products and improved earnings from
tourism were mainly responsible for the turnaround, In Papua New
Guinea, structural adjustment programs necessitated by financial crisis
and a reduction in mining and petroleum output slowed down the
economy. GDP fell by 4.8% in 1995 compared with a 3.1% growth in
1994 and 16.6% in 1993. Most sectors of the economy showed negative growth. The principal exception was the construction sector as the
development of new mining ventures began.

In Fiji, GDP grew by 2.2%, about half the rate in 1994, principally
because of a decline in sugar production and in the contribution to GDP
of community and personal services. However, other sectors of the
economy, such as fishing, forestry, tourism services and general manufacturing, achieved growth rates higher than in 1994. Growth in Tonga, at
1.8%, was also about one-third that recorded in 1994, mainly because of
a sharp contraction in exports of squash. Among other smaller PDMCs,
Kiribati registered positive growth of 2.6% after some years of decline
Expanded government activity was the main reason behind the positive
outcome. In Solomon Islands, GDP maintained an unsustainable 4%
growth rate, resulting from excessive government expenditure and forest
logging rates well above long-run sustainable yields.

Marshall Islands had a growth of 1.4% in 1995. The main
contribution came from fishing, copra and services, such as trade and
telecommunications. Economic growth in the Federated States of
Micronesia continued to be modest. The 1% growth achieved in 1995
was slightly lower than the 1.3% achieved in 1994. Vanuatu managed
to maintain its 1994 growth rate of 2%, partly because of a slight
recovery in tourism and exports. However, in most sectors, economic

 

* Cook Islands, Fiji, Kiribati, Marshall Islands, Federated States of Micronesia, Nauru, Papua New Guinea,
Solomon Islands, Tonga, Tuvalu, Vanuatu and Western Semea.activity was sluggish. Tuvalu also recorded ar: estimated 2% growth. In
Cook Islands, GDP declined by 3.7% as tourism earnings fell off and
consumer confidence declined in the wake of a currency crisis and the
imposition of credit controls by commercial banks.

 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
  
   
 
 
 
 
 
 
  

Inflation

Consumer price inflation was largely kept under control in most
PDMCs. In the Federated States of Micronesia and Marshall
Islands, the rate was 4%, the same as in 1994 for the former and
slightly lower for the latter. The inflation rate in Fiji rose somewhat in
1995 but was still relatively low at 2%. Much the same rate was experienced by Vanuatu in both 1994 and 1995. In Kiribati, the increase in
consumer prices was about 6.5%, against 5.1% in 1994, An expansionary budget policy, which included higher wages for civil servants, was one
of the reasons behind the increase. Rising inflation in Australia, the main
source of Kiribati’s imports, was also a contributory factor. Solomon
Islands experienced an inflation of 9%, lower than the 12.8% recorded
in 1994, Currency depreciation in Papua New Guinea following the
floating of the kina in late 1994 was the main factor that pushed the
country’s inflation rate to around 15% in 1995, against 2.9% in 1994. In |
Western Samoa, by contrast, in‘lation was reduced from 18.4% in j
1994 to 4.5% in 1995 as locai food supplies became more abundant and
the effects of the value-added genera! services zax introduced in 1994
were absorbed, In Tonga, improved domestic food supplies and lower
import prices brought inflation down from 2.4% in 1994 to virtually zero
in 1995. For similar reasons, inflation in Tuvalu was also held at low
leveis.

External Sector

In 1995, PDMCs showed some diversity of experience in their

. external account positions. In Papua New Guinea, though the trade.
surplus was almost similar to that of 1994, the deficit on services account
increased. As a result, the current account surplus fell from 10.6% of

DP in 1994 to 7.1% in 1995.

By contrast, Fiji's trade deficit shrank somewhat and the surplus on
services increased because of higher receipts from tourism. The current
account thus improved from a deficit of 4.1% of GDP in 1994 to a smail
surplus of 0.2% of GDP in 1995. :

Increased exports helped the Federated States of Micronesia
reduce its current account deficit. However, the deficit still remained very
high at around 53% of GDP, before taking account of official transfers,
Marshall Islands also experienced an increase in exports.

Western Samoa, which had a current account surplus of about
<# 2.8% of GDP in 1994, managed to increase the surplus to 5.7% in 1995
as a result of higher export receipts and earnings from tourism.

In Tonga, the current account deficit surged to 8.1% of GDP in
1995 compared with 0.3% in 1994, mainly because of a decline in
exports of squash and a rise in import payments. : .

Vanuatu experienced a 6.5% rise in exports and a 5.7% increase in
imports. The higher trade deficit, however, was offset by improved
receipts from services, especially tourism. The current account deficit,

 

atter allowing for official transfers, was about 3.7% of GDP, about half

 

ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENTS IN DMCs

 

Selected Pacific Economies

Changes in Consumer Prices

Per Cen
Br

16

 

 

 

‘1991 1992 1993 > 199% 1395

Western Sores

P%

      

 

1991 1992

1993

1994

1995ANNUAL REPORT 1995

 

Selected Pacific Economies
Current Account Balance (Per Cent of GDP}

Per Cent
40

zo

 

soy ees re re
199) 92 d993 1994 1995,

20}

     

20
Western Suimoa

40

60

1991 1992 1993 1994 1995

 

what it was in 1994,

A surge in exports of logs enabled Solomon Islands to increase ils
trade surplus to $16 million and to achieve a current account surplus of
2.4% of GDP, against 0.9% in 1994. Because of private debt repayment, a small overall deficit was recorded, leaving the country's external
reserves at the low level of about one month's imports.

The external position of Kiribati was less favorable than in 1994,
The small rise in exports — mainly of copra and marine products ~ was
insufficient to match the increase in imports, so that the trade deficit
widened to $31 million. However, net services receipts, investment
income and official transfers were sufficient to yield a current account
surplus equal to about 13.7% of GDP. The surplus, however, was much
lower than in 1994 when it was nearly 35%.

As in past years, both Cook Islands and Tuvalu had to rely on
services receipts, remittances and official transfers 1o cover continued
large trade deficits. Cook Islands also experienced a significant capital
flight and loss of external reserves following a currency crisis.

Domestic Policies

Fiscal positions worsened in many of the PDMCs during 1995. In a
number of cases, increases in current expenditures were not matched by
proportionate increases in revenue.

This was particularly the case in Solomon Islands, where an
expansionary budget worsened the fiscal deficit problem. The problem
has already led to heavy government borrowing, high inflation and
currency depreciation.

An expansionary budget was also the case in Kiribati, which led to
a deficit of nearly 7% of GDP, compared with a surplus of 20.4% in
1994,

Western Samoa's fiscal position also worsened with the deficit
rising to about 29.8% of GDP, compared to 21.3% in 1994. In part, this
resulted from a shortfall in expected revenue, but principally because of
debt repayments on behalf of the national airline.

Tonga experienced a fiscal deficit of 3.4% of GDP, against a surplus
of 1.4% in 1994. Increased spending on social services, a decline in
nontax revenue and higher development spending were the contributing
factors. s

In Fiji, the overall fiscal deficit increased somewhat from 1.7% to
2.6% of GDP, partly because of increased outlays on salaries and debt
interest, and partly because revenue, especially nontax revenue, was
below 1994 levels,

Papua New Guinea was an exception to the general trend. Strict
expenditure controls had been successful in holding the fiscal deficit to
2.8% of GDP in 1994. A continuation of these policies left a small overall
fiscal surplus in 1995. .

The fiscal position in Cook Islands remained difficult, Although the
overall deficit was lower than in 1994, a slowdown in economic activity
impacted adversely on tax revenue and some special measures had to be
taken to ease the cash-flow problem. Even so, a debt interest payment
that fell due in the latter part of the year was not made.

In the Federated States of Micronesia, the overall deficit of the
national govemment declined slightly to 4.2% of GDP from 4.5% in
1994, after allowing for external grants. But some of the constituent

T

}
a
Fk
Lw

apy sega tinsirecaente

 

ea

ape guatigteT ae

seca

u

 

cong cevaierns

states encountered serious problems as expenditures ran well ahead of
revenue.

Marshall Islands also ran into difficulties. The fiscal deficit of over
40% of GDP had to be financed by virtual exhaustion of financial
reserves.

jn Tuvalu, after 2 small surphs in 1994, a current fiscal deficit of
nearly 35.7% of GDP was recorded in 1995 as a drop in interest and
dividend receipts was not matched by sufficient expenditure reduction.

- Vanuaiu managed to increase its current fisce! surplus through
better revenue performance.

In the PDMCs generally, the diversification of the productive base
and of the export structure is an essential requirement for achieving
sustainable growth. Reducing the scope of the public sector and encouraging a greater role for private activity are important in that cortext
Though most PDMC governments concur with that view, progress in that
direction has been limited. Serious shortages of professional and skilled
labor as well as an insufficient capacity for policy and project analysis are
among the other problems these countries face.

The high share of salaries and wages in public expenditure means
that enough resources are not available for operational purposes, for the
effective maintenance of public infrastructure and for the improvement of
educational and health services. These remain critical areas for reform
generally in the PDMCs. .

 

Outlook for 1996

NIEs

Hong Kong's intemational competitiveness is likely to be eroded
further unless it can bring down the rate of inflation. Therefore, although
the prospects for 1996 appear bright, Hong Kong may not be ina
position to fully exploit the expanding market opportunities. On the
demand side, the adverse wealth effecis of asset price deflation are likely
to consirain private consumption demand. The combination of increasing
real costs and declining domestic demand is unlikely to lead to a quick
Tecovery in economic growth. On a more optimistic note, the apparent
success that PRC has had in fighting in‘lation enhances the possibilities of
strong and sustained growth in that country, and Hong Kong should
benefit from this. In 1996, GDP in Hong. Kong is expected to grow by
about 4.5%,

The business cycle in the Republic of Korea reached its peak
towards the end of 1995. In 1996, the issue is not whether GDP growth
will be siow, but rather by how much. Domestic demand is likely to
contract as many enterprises have already undertaken substantial investments. Export demand is, however, expected to remain strong. In the
absence of unexpected factors, it is likely that growth of GDP in the
Rerublic of Korea will be about 7.5% in 1996.

Economic growth in Singapore is likely to be slow in 1996. The
extent of the slowdown will depend on a range of factors, including
growth in global demand for electronics and ancillary products. It is
unlikely that the fast growth momentum of recent years can be maintained in this sector. Given the Government's express desire to maintain

  

  

 

 

 

 

 

 

The Bank has
provided a loan

to Fiji

io develop housing
for iow-income
people,A family planning
clinic in Indonesia
under the
Bank-funded
Second Health and
Population Project.

 

 

a noninflationary expansion in economic activity, some slippage in
growth may even be desirable. It is, however, unlikely that GDP growth
will fall much below 8% in 1996.

Real GDP growth in Taipei,China is alsc expected to be somewhat
slow in 1996. Investment demand in particular is expected to decline, but
consumption demand is also likely to remain comparatively depressed.
These adverse factors should, however, be offset, to some degree, by
conducive external factors. The economy should post a growth of close to
6.4% in 1996. Over the longer ierm, Taipei,China's economic prospects
will depend on its success in easing various supply-side boltlenecks and in
facilitating its graduation to higher value-added manufacturing and
services activities.

Southeast Asia

Southeast Asia should be able to sustain the current tempo of
economic growth in 1996, with continued strong inflow of foreign
investment. Given this situation, the macroeconomic management
strategy for most countries will be to proceed cautiously. The focus will be
on containing inflationary pressures and current account deficits, and on
reducing supply bottlenecks.

Economic growth in Indonesia is likely to be 7.8% in 1996, lower
than the rates achieved during the preceding two years. Faced with
greater competition in the international market, industrial growth is
forecast to be somewhat lower than in 1995, but the services sector Is
likely to improve with tourism providing the major stimulus. Gross
domestic investment will pick up, reflecting strong private investment
growth supported by heavy inflows of foreign investment. Sorne reduction in the levels of unemployment and underemployment is likely. On
the external front, exports are projected to increase more rapidly in
tandem with the expansion of Indonesia’s main Asian markets. Exports
of textiles will benefit from a higher export quota recently arranged with
the US. Imports are likely to increase to support investment demand.
Overall, the current account deficit is forecast to decline slightly from
more than $8 billion in 1995.

Malaysia is considering giving more importance to the quality and
sustainability of its long-term growth prospects than facing potential
macroeconomic instability that excessive growth imposes. Economic
growth is expected to slow down to 8.5%. Strong domestic demand for
both consumption and investment, and sustained exports will provide the
impetus for growth. Exports are expected to grow faster than imports,
which should result in a small trade surplus. The expected buoyant
economic performance, sustained domestic demand and a tight labor
market will exert pressure on prices in 1996. However, prudent fiscal
and monetary policies, and import liberalization should ease the pressures.

Growth prospects for the Philippines over the medium term
appear reasonably bright. GDP is expected to grow at an annual rate of
about 5.5% in 1996. The industry and services sectors will spearhead
growth, Industrial output is expected to increase by about 8% and the
services output by about 5%. Assuming normal weather conditions,
agricultural output should improve by about 2.5%. Growth of the
economy generally will continue to be driven by investment and exports.
Led mainly by private investment, gross investment as a ratio of GDP is

vré
i
i
i
i
i
!
i
i
}
i
i
t

 

prmenersinen seep pec ett eee 3

  

expected to increase by about a percemtage point. Since the increase in
investment is expected to be matched by higher private savings, it should
not put pressure on the external balance.

In Thailand, the econornic fundamentals remain strong although
GDP is likely to grow ata slower rate than in 1995. Agriculture will
sustain its growth of about 4%, while industry will register a lower
increase. The Government will continue to pursue measures to reduce
the gap in the current account, which in 1995 rose to about 7.5% of
GDP. Similarly, elforis will continue to restrain upward price movements.
As domestic pressure on prices brought about by the effects of floods
ease ud, inflation wil] likely be lower in 1996.

In 1996, Viet Nam’s GDP growth is projected at 9.8%, with
agriculture growing by 4.5%. industry by 14.6% and services by 11%.
Given the high economic growth targets of the Government and large
capital inflows, inflation is expected 20 remain a major issue. As regards
external accounts, the demand for imports is likely to continue at a faster
rate than exports, resulting in a current account deficit of about 9% of
GDP.

In Cambodia, output growth is projected to be 7.5% in 1996, Both
industry and agriculture are expected to perform well. Inflation is expected to ease to 3.5%. Trade and current account deficits are expected
to rise as exports are constrained by bans on shipments of several
primary products.

In Lao PDR, growth prospects will continue to depend upon
weather conditions. Acceleration in the industry and services sectors can
be exzected if financial sector reforms are implemented and the regulation of the private sector is further strearnlined. GDP growth is projected

to be 7.5% in 1996.

Myanmar's economy is likely to grow again by over 7%. The need
to meet domestic rice requirements could result in a slowdown in exports;

while imports will continue to rise by 89%-9%. This will further widen trade
and current account deficits.

South Asia

South, Asia’s economic prospects appear to be promising provided
policies to promote macroeconomic stabilization are maintained and the
pace of economic liberalization is accelerated. There is, however, considerable potitical uncertainty in several countries and the economic outlook
will be influenced to a large extent by the manner in which the current ©
conflicts are resolved. Furthermore, reducing poverty end improving
income distribution remain long-term challenges in the subregion.

Economic prospecis for Bangladesh in 1996 appear to be mixed,
and the recent macroeconomic situation in the country shows a downward trend. Floods between June and October 1995 will adversely affect
foodgrains production in the early part of 1996. Given ¢ background,
economic growth is expected to be adout 3.6% in 1996, provided
industrial output is not further held back. Economic growth should,
especially, pick up later in the year, provided private sector investment
plays a more important role in the economy. Because of the lagged effect
of expansionary monetary and tisca! policies, inflation is likely to remain
high at 8.8% in 1996, The balance of payments is likely to remain

strained, with a high anticipated growth in imports.
Economic growth in India is likely to accelerate to 6.5% in 1996,

 

 

ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENTS IN DMCs

 

Children ina
residential area

in Thailand
developed under the
Bank-funded
Shelter Sector
Project.ANNUAL REPORT 1995

 

 

Technicians

at the North Madras
Thermal Power Project
in India,

for which the

Bank has provided

@ $150 million

loan,

 

 

with the manufacturing sector leading the expansion. However, sustained
economic growth will depend on continued economic liberalization and
further fiscal consolidation. With the various policy changes that have
been undertaken, it is expected that the fiscal delicit of the Central
Government will be reduced to about 5% of GDP, However, to atlain this
goal, expenditure needs to be controlled more tightly and tax revenue
needs to be augmented. Exports are expected to rise by 18% as a result
of the depreciation of the rupee in the second half of 1995.

In Nepal, the raie of GDP growth is likely to more than double to
5.6% in 1996, largely because of a strong expected recovery in agricultural output and better performance in the industry and services sectors.
Reforms in the financial sector will stimulate beth savings and investment.
Macroeconomic stability will be enhanced by a further decline in the fiscal
deficit, Inflation should moderate to 7%. Some further contraction in
carpet and garment exports will expand the trade deficit, but with
increased tourisrn receipts the current account deficit should contract to
7.8% of GDP.

In Pakistan, GDP growth is projected to pick up to 5.5% in 1996.
The agriculture sector will continue to play a major role in boosting
economic growth over the next two years. In a bid to lower inflation,
which is a condition of the standby credit program arranged with IMF, a
tight monetary policy will be pursued. However, taking into account both
the supply and demand side factors, the inflation rate is expected to
remain in double digits, at around 13%. The trade deficit will deteriorate
further and, combined with uncertain overseas workers’ remittances, the
current account deficit will be in the range of 4.5%-5% of GDP.

Economic growth in Sri Lanka is expected to be 5.2%. Under
normal weather conditions, agricultural output could increase by 2%-3%
primarily because of higher output of plantation and other high-valueadded crops. The industry sector should grow by 7,9%. Investment
should pick up in 1997 as the momentum of industrial output accelerates. Given that the Government will continue to administer the prices of
key commodities over the short term, the official inflation rate is expected
to be maintained at the current levels of 9%-10%. Assuming a stable real
effective exchange rate, total exports in dollar terms should increase by
11% in 1996, while imports should expand by 13% in the short term as
investments begin to recover and the need for capital goods increases. As
a result, the trade deficit will widen to $1.2 billion in 1996 while the
current account deficit should remain at 3% of GDP.

PRC and Mongolia

A gradual slowdown of the economy is expected in PRC over the
next two years. Real GDP growth should stabilize in the noninflationary,
sustainable range of 8% to 9%. With greater attention being given to
agriculture, the sector's growth performance should be sustained at the
4.5% level over the next two years. Industrial growth is anticipated to
stabilize at 8.5% per annum over the next two years in line with the
Government's efforts to prevent economic overheating and rationalize
the activities of state-owned enterprises. The Government has set an
inflation target of 10% for 1996. Money supply is expected to contract
further and the Government will continue its strict control over fixed asset
investment. Consumption demand will also weaken. Exports are projected to grow at a more moderate rate of 17.5% in 1996. Imports areon

 

 

 

IOMIC DEVELOPMENTS IN DMCs

 

anticipated to grow at a higher rate of 24%, mainly on account of custom!
duty reductions and the strong domestic demand for advanced technology-based items. Strong inflows of foreign capital will also be accompaniec by increased imports of machinery and equipment

Mongolia’s economic recovery is only two years old and fragile.
Inflation rate is persistently high and voverty is rising. If some
macroeconomic stability is achieved, the economy can be expected to
grow by 4.5% to 5% in 1996. Inflation should come down gradually over
the next two years as the economy absorbs the impact of price liberalization and prices settle down to market-determined levels. Exports are
expected to increase by 10% in 1996. With continued economic growth
and the removal of import restrictions, imports are expected to grow by
9.9%. This will yield a current account deficit of about 10% of GDP
because of large invisibles payment for interest and remittances abroad.

   
 

Central Asian Republics

Kazakhstan's economy is projected to continue to contract in
1996. A’ siow recovery will follow thereafter. On the external front,
Kazakhstan's recovery will depend much on improvement in economic
conditions ot its trading partners. The current account is expected to
require $1 billion in annual financing, partly from foreign direct investment and perily from multilateral financial institutions or bilateral assistance programs. The debt-service burden is expected to reach 14% of
GDP in 1996

The Kyrgyz Republic has had continuous declines in its GDP and
large increases in prices since 1992. Although prices Degen to stabilize in
1994, the fall in GDP that year was severe. Consequently, GDP is not
likely to show positive growth before 1997. For 1996, a 5% decline is
projected. Growth in the informal sector, which was estimated to be
about 30% of GDP, will continue to help ease the impact of the economic downturn. Although a slow recovery is projected, the current
account balance will likely require $200 million in annual financing, the
buik of which will have to come from medium and iong-term lending by
multilateral] development institutions or bilateral assistance programs. |

The outlook for Uzbekistan is promising. The Government intends
to deepen the process of enterprise reform in 1996. While certain
strategic sectors have been excluded, such measures, combined with
strength in petroleum, cotton and grain production, should enable the
county to achieve positive growth.

 

 

 

Pacific DMCs

Prospects for the Pacific DMC economies in 1996 are not encouraging. In Papua New Guinea, the largest economy in the subregion, GDP
is expected to recover to a positive growth of nearly 2% after contracting
by 4.8% in 1995. Output of the mining and petroleum sectors will
continue to contract, but this will be offset by gains in other sectors,
especially agriculture and construction. Fiji also should achieve a growth =!
rate of 2.9% with higher sugar production and further rise in tourism.
Growth in Tonga wil! remain in the region of 2%. Vanuatu seems likely
to have some difficulty in mainteining the growth rate of 2% it achieved
in 1994 and 1995. Solomon Islands is likely to experience a fall in

 

 

GDP growth to about 3% as capacity constraints in forestry and fishing

 

Welder repairing

a pipe used for
district heating in
Qingdao in the
People's Republic of
China. The Bank
has provided a loan
of $193 million

for environmental!
improvement

of Qingdao.ANNUAL REPORT 1995

 

 

 

The Bank has

provided a loan

of $2.6 million

to Western Samoa

to improve

its telecommunications
infrastructure.

 

begin to affect output. GDP in the Federated States of Micronesia
and Marshall Islands is likely to decline as both countries are trying to
adjust to a scaling down of external assistance from the United States. In
Cook Islands, a revival of tourism and of consumer confidence could
help to stem any further decline in GDP.

Partly as a result of increased capital spending, and recapitalization
of a domestic bank, the net fiscal deficit is expected to rise in Fiji to about
3.6% of GDP, more than twice what it was in 1994, In Papua New
Guinea, the deficit is expected to be contained within about 1% of GDP.
Modest increases in fiscal deficits are also expected in Tonga, Western
Samoa and Vanuatu. On external account, Tonga is expected to reduce
its current account deficit in 1996 to about 3% of GDP. Papua New
Guinea’s current account balance, which showed a surplus af 7% of GDP
in 1995, is expected to move into deficit of a similar order in 1996
because of higher imports, virtually no growth in exports and higher debt
services and other invisible payments. An improvement in services
receipts, especially from tourism, is expected to enable Fiji to increase its
current account surplus in 1996 to about 2% of GDP.

t
x
isees

SLU ni neers eee Soe ae ES

e

re

  

 

 

 

 

 

Operational Priorities

Strategic Planning and Operational
Agenda

HE BANK's 1995-1998 Medium-Term Strategic Framework
guides its operational directions and detines its areas of emphasis. The
framework outlines the following five long-term strategic development
objectives:

v promoting economic growth;

¥ reducing poverty;

Y supporting human development (including population

planning):

improving the status of women; and

Y protecting the environment.

’ Thus, in addition to its traditional role as project financier in its
developing member countries (DMCs), the Bank has a new role as a
catalyst for policy reforth,.capacity development and regional cooperation. This expanded and integrated role is operationalized by three-year
rolling work programs prepared by country and by department.

In each DMC, target sectors are selected on the basis of the Bank’s
operational strategy for that country. A long-term perspective is taken for
Bank involvement in these seciors and a close partnership is forged with
the counterpart agencies concerned. While project financing will continue
to be the major operational instrument of the Bank, the selection of
projects, the process of their design and the approaches adopted ior
implementation will all be utilized to catalyze and leverage changes on a
much broader front.

The Bank follows a classification system for its loan projects that links
the objectives of individua! projects with its strategic development objectives. The classification systern distinguishes between projecis that are
directly airned at meeting the Bank’s strategic objectives and those thai
have these objectives as a secondary goal. The system enables the Bank
to assess whether the mix of projects is in line with its development
agenda and DMCs’ development priorities.

While the strategic framework highlights the Bank’s role in policy
formulation, capacity building and regional cooperation, its role in
mooilizing additional financial resources for DMCs’ development
programs will 5e equally important in the coming years. For optimal
results, the Bank will work out its comparative advantages in delivering
ty specific development assistance.

  

 

 

and Policies

 

The Bank is

heiping improve
water supply

in Ho Chi Mink City,
Viet Nam

 

67ANNUAL RI

   

 

 

 

PORT 1995

   

The policy
on governance
marks

an important
_, step toward
the promotion
of sound
‘development
management.

 

 

New Policy Initiatives

In 1995, the Board approved a number of new policies lo consolidate the Bank’s operational thrusts. The policies are in line with the
agenda agreed upon in connection with the Fourth General Capital
Increase, the development objectives and thematic priorities delined in
the Medium-Term Strategic Framework and the recommendations of the
Task Force on Improving Project Quality. Following are brief accounts of
the policies adopted:

Governance: This policy marks an important step toward the
promotion of sound development management. Governance issues,

. which have drawn increasing altention in recent development debates,

matter in relation to the effectiveness with which development assistance
is used, the impact of development programs and projects, and the
absorptive capacity of borrowing DMCs. The Bank recognizes that the
policy environment in which development takes place should be appropriate, that equify issues should be addressed, that DMCs should strengthen
their ownership of projects and take a participatory approach in project
design and implementation, and that the experience of the high-perforrning economies in the region could be useful in formulating development
strategies. To make the elements of good governance operationally
relevant, the Bank has identified four areas for action, i.e., accountability
(building government capacity), participation (participatory development
processes), predictability (legal frameworks) and transparency (openness
of information). The Bank will integrate these dimensions into its operations, and support programs and projects to ralse the quality of governance in its DMCs.

In April, a workshop on “Governance and Development: Lessons of
the East Asian Experience” was held at the Bank's headquarters. It
brought together specialists on governance from the high-performing
East Asian countries and drew attention to questions of bureaucratic
capability, government-business interface and the principle of shared
growth.

The workshop on governance and development was followed by a
series of workshops in the Philippines, called “Partnership for Development,” highlighting opportunities for closer collaboration between the
national government, local government units, non-governmental organizations (NGOs), the private sector and external donors. A seminar was
also organized in Sri Lanka on “Governance and Economic Development,” which laid the ground for further public administration reform in
the country.

Inspection Function: The policy establishes formal procedures for
any community, organization or other group affected by a public sector
Bank project to assert that the formulation or implementation of the
project was inconsistent with Bank policies, to the material detriment of
that group. The community, organization or group making a request for
inspection must present reasonable evidence that its rights or interests
have been or are likely to be directly, materially and adversely affected as
a result of the Bank’s failure to follow its operational policies and procedures in connection with the project concerned.

An applicant must first raise its grievance with Management. If the
applicant is not satisfied with Management's response, it can submit a
request for inspection to a six-member committee of the Board of
Directors (the Board Inspection Committee), which will decide whether to

 

:mafipbaleiein circle

 

 

HG she a ea eons

 

olsen atin brains

OPERATIONAL PRIORITIES AND POLICIES

 

Y an inspection
ig ae nt Dimcine. > CLASSIFICATION OF PROJECTS BY OBJECTIVE, 1992-1995"
The Board of Directors will (by pub)
consider the recommenda-  <
tion. If the Board authorizes
an inspection, a panel,
composed of at least three er
individuals from a standing Traditional Growth Projects | :27. Aa,
roster of independent ‘ :
outside experts, will be
formec to carry out the
inspection. The panel’s
report will: (i) identify all
relevant facts, (ii) ascertain
whether the Bank has
complied with its operational policies and procedures, and (iii) recommend,
if appropriate, any remedial
changes in the scope or
implementatior. of the inspected project. The report of the panel and
Management's response to it will be considered by the Board for appropriate decision. |
The Bank's inspection procedures will take effect upon the Boare’s
approval of the initial roster of experts. The possibility of applying these
procedures to private sector operations will be reviewed in two years. !
Involuntary Resettlement: The policy on invoiuntary resettlement
formalizes and strengthens the Bank's approach to the issue of population displaced by a development project. The policy enunciates the
following objectives and principles:
(i) involuntary resettlement should be avoided wherever
feasible;
(i) where population displacement is unavoidable, it should be
minimized; .
iii) displaced people should be compensated and assisted, so that
their economic and social future would be generally as fevorabie
as it would have been in the absence of the project;
(iv) attected people should be fully informed of and consulted on
reseitlement and compensation options;
(v) existing social and cultural insiitutions of resettlers and their
hosts should be supported and used to the greatest extent
possible, and resettlers should be integrated economically and
socially into host communities;
(vi) the absence of a formal legal title to land should not af Bi a bar to
compensation;
(vii) as far as feasible, involuntary resettlement should be conceived
and executed as part of the project;
(viii) the full cost of resettlement and compensation shouid be
included in the presentation of project costs and benefits; and
(ix) costs of resettlement and compensation may be considered for
inclusion in Bank Joan financing for projects.
The pelicy requires an initial social assessment of every development
project from 1996 onwards. Where significant involuntary resettlement is
necessary, the Bank will provide the government concerned and other

   
  
  
 
    
    

i Classification a

* Social Projects .

Poverty Reduction’
Human Development. f
“., Women in Deveiopirient - *ANNUAL REPORT 1995

 

Plans for
private sector
development
will be
dovetailed
with country
operational
strategy studies
and

country
operational
programs.

 

 

 

 

project sponsors with necessary capacity-building support.

Cofinancing Strategy and Guarantee Policy: To intensify its
catalytic role for resource mobilization, the Bank adopted a new slralegy
on cofinancing and modified its policy and guidelines on guarantee
operations. The intention is to make cofinancing and guarantee operations a mainstream Bank activily. The basic objectives of the cofinancing
strategy are to catalyze additional private capital for DMCs by assisting
cofinanciers in the appraisal and management of risks, and to continue to
promote official cofinancing, particularly for low-income countries. The
strategy envisages that: (i) official cofinancing on nonconcessional terms
will be provided mainly to growth-oriented projects while concessional
resources will be targeted at DMCs receiving only ADF assistance, subject
to donor preferences; (ii) parallel commercial cofinancing will be encouraged for projects that can attract private capital on a voluntary basis;

(iii) DMCs that are unable to obtain maturities long enough to suit their
projects will be assisted in obtaining parallel loans with the support of
Bank guarantees; (iv} in case guaraniee support does not suit the requirements of a DMC, the Bank will, where appropriate, help arrange loans
under its Complementary Financing Scheme; and (v) the Bank will take
proactive measures to enable DMCs to obtain export credit on the best
possible ierms.

Under the new guarantee policies arid guidelines, the Bank will
provide either partial credit guarantees, where it provides all-inclusive
cover for a portion of the debt service, or partial risk guarantees, where it
covers specific risk events for all or part of the debt service. In cases
where the Bank is the primary obligor, it will generally seek to obtain a
counter-guarantee from the host-country government, The eligibility
criteria for guarantee operations have been enlarged to include: (i) all
borrowers eligible for Bank lending, including countries receiving only
ADF loans; (ii) all projects eligible for a Bank loan, provided that the Bank
has a stake in the form of direct loan, bond subscription or equity
investment; (iii) a wider set of debt instruments, including bond issues;

(iv) where appropriate, partial guarantee of commercial loans or bond
issues of highly rated private sector entities without a counter-guarantee
from the DMC government; and (v) where appropriate, local currency
debt, especially domestic bond issues or long-term loans from local
financial institutions for infrastructure/utilities projects.

Assistance to the Private Sector: The new policy sharpens the
focus of the Bank’s private sector operations and reconfirms the importance of technical assistance and policy advice to improve the environment for private sector development. The Bank will particularly emphasize policy, legal and regulatory reforms, institutional enhancement and
human development. The formulation and implementation of reforms will
continue to be supported, on a selective basis, through program lending.
In the direct financing of private sector projects, the priority will be on
capital market and infrastructure development. Plans for private sector
development will be dovetailed with country operational strategy studies
and couniry assistance programs.

Based on this policy, the Bank has allocated $500 million of
aclditional ordinary capital resources for its private sector operations up to
the end of 1997. To facilitate quicker decisions on small private sector
loans and equity investments, approval procedures have been streamlined. For supplementary equity investments not exceeding $2 million,
the approving authority has been shifted from the Board of Directors to

{
i:
i
i
B
i
f
4

magna pesos

secrsttemmteasictcnet eerste MA ERR HE EER AROSE RECN PT OREO

 

OPERATIONAL PRIORITIES AND POLICIES

 

the President. For equity investment and/or icans not exceeding

$5 milion per enterprise, a surnmary approval procedure has been
adopted (except where the investment/loan. is the first private sector
operation in a DMC in 2 particular year):

Sector Policy Papers: The Bank also approved three sector policy
nepers during the year on energy, forestry, and agriculture and natural
resources research. The iccus of the energy sector policy is on increasing private sector participation in large-scale energy investments; improving energy efficiency on boih-supply and demand sides; and integrating
environmental considerations in energy deveiopment. A major portion of
the Bank’s lending and technical assistance for the power subsector wil]
be directed te DMCs committed to increasing efficiency and mobilizing
resources from: the private sector. In general, the Bank will finance new
capacity additions if it is satisfied that the utility concerned is paying
adequate attention to supply efficiency and demand management. The
Bank will encourage power utilities, and provide them with training
assistance, to incorporate into their planning models key elements of
integrated resource planning, including demand-side management and
internalization of environmental costs. DMCs will be encouraged to phase
out subsidies to the power subsector and minimize cross-subsidies. In the
hydrocarbon subsector, the Bank will play an important role in funding
the development, processing, transportation and distribution of natural
ges. It will actively promote environmentally sound coal mining practices
and clean coal technologies. In respect of rurai energy systems, assistance
to provide commercial energy in rural areas will receive priority if it is
economically ard financially viable to do so. If a project is only econorically viable, assistance wil! depend on the power utility’s ability to
accommodate it without adversely affecting its overall financial viability.
Technical assistance will be provided to assess the economic viability of
solar, minihydro.and wind energy options in rurai areas, particularly in
isolated locations.

The new Bank policy for the forestry sector is based on three
imperatives: protection, production and participation. Accordingly, the
jollowing guiding principles have been outlined: (i) the multipie and
complementary uses of forests for their economic, environmental and
social values should be bome in mind; (ii) the renewable character of
forest resources should be capitalized on; (iii) forest development strategies should recognize and support the identity, culture and rights of
forest-dwelling cornmunities, and involve the recent encroacher in @
constructive way; and (iv) the vital role of forests in maintaining
biodiversity, acting as a global carbon storage area, reducing air pollution
and mitigating global warming should be recognized.

The policy has identitied several priority areas for the Benk’s
Operations in the forestry sector. These include the improvement of
DMCs’ policy and regulatory frameworks for forestry development;
support for technologica!, policy and valuation yesearch; public consultation in forestry development; the development of investment strategies;
and raising the capability of forestry agencies for sector analysis, planning, regulation, enforcement and monitoring.

Different strategic approaches will be followed in respect cf DMCs
that are forest-rich and those that are now net importers of wood
products. In the case of the former, the emphasis will be on maximizing
the area to be xept as functioning forests and ensuring that adequate
areas are set aside for harvesting, catchment protection, plantations and

 

 

 

 

 

  

 

The Bank-financed
Walawe Irrigation
Improvernent Project
in Sri Lanka

has helped develop
sustainable and

rernunerative
Farming systems,The Bank

seeks to ensure
that social
dimensions

are considered
and incorporated
in all aspects

of its

operations.

 

 

 

 

forest-dwelling communities. In the case of the latter, the objective will be
lo increase domestic wood supplies through plantations and better fores|
management. In both cases, the Bank will encourage the use of wood

substitutes and alternative energy sources to reduce the demand on forest

resources.

The policy paper on agriculture and natural resources
research identifies new challenges in this field. It notes that, despite
impressive past accomplishments in agricultural research, which allowed
rice production in DMCs to double and wheat production to quadruple in
three decades, poverty and population pressures persist while land and
water resources are becoming increasingly scarce and degraded. Agains!
this background, the new policy has identified the following areas as the
focal points of Bank support: (i) developing sustainable and remunerative
farming systems for poor farmers; (ii) ensuring sustainable management
of agriculture and natural resources; and {iii) raising agricultural productivity. In relation to farming systems for poor farmers, the multidisciplinary
aspects of these systems and the social, economic and environmental
appropriateness of technologies will be emphasized. Assistance to both
international and national agricultural research centers will be enhanced.
Assistance under a single regional technical assistance of at least $5
million @ year will be provided to the Consultative Group on International
Agricultural Research Centers, while assistance to other international and
national research centers will also be strengthened.

Social Dimensions

While continuing to view economic growth as essential to development, the Bank is acutely aware of the social problems the region faces.
Consequently, its priorities and policies reflect specific concern for issues
such as beneficiary participation, poverty reduction, enhancing the role of
women, human development and population planning.

The Bank is making concrete efforts to ensure that social dimensions
are considered and incorporated in all aspects of its operations. During
1995, 37 of 66 approved public sector projects included components
that reflected the Bank’s policy concerns on social issues. Two new
policies were approved, outlining the Bank’s approaches to the questions
of indigenous peoples and involuntary resettlement. All new loan,
technical assistance and policy proposals continued to be reviewed
specifically from the social dimensions perspective, and, increasingly,
social development specialists among Bank staff were involved directly in
the preparation of such proposals. The Bank’s Handbook for Incorporation of Social Dimensions in Projects provides guidance for stat,
consultants and executing agencies.

The Bank has identified four social issues for special attention in its
operations: poverty reduction, women in development, human development (including population planning) and protection of vulnerable groups
from adverse effects of development activities.

Poverty Reduction: With income and quality-of-life gaps
continuing to widen in much of the region despite economic growth,
poverty reduction remains a primary aim of Bank operations. Of the
more than 1 billion poor people in the world, some 750 million live in
Asia. Some 500 million suffer from abject poverty.

The Bank’s broad concer for poverty reduction is reflected in theformu'ation and implementation of all projects. Specific attention is paid
to projects that provide direct support and economic opportunities for the
soor. At the same time, efforts are being undertaken to make heaith,
fami ly panning, education and other social services more accessible to
the poor. The target groups for such include the landless, small
farmers, upland communities, marginal fisherfolk and other disadvantaged communities in both rural and urban areas.

Operational areas that have a direct bearing on poverty reduction
include micro‘inance, agriculture and rural development, community
health services, water resource development and infrastructure development. A total of 20 projects, approved during 1995, included poverty
reduction as a specific objective.

During the year, the Bank became a member of the Consultative
Group to Assist the Poorest, a multidonor effort focusing on issues of
poverty reduction. The group provides grants and loans to enable poor
people to become progressively more productive, with the expectation
that some participants would ultimately move into the formal financial
sector. Also during the year, a regionai technical assistance project was
undertaken to assess the impact of Ban projects.on poverty reduction.

Women in Development: The Bank's policy and practice with
regard to women in development are increasingly oriented toward
integrating gender considerations into al! aspects of its operations. The
objective is to help women expand their participation in an¢ contribution
to economic activity; enhance their economic and social status; and
ensure that they benefit from development.

Accordingly, the Bank emphasizes projects that benefit women
directly. Specific efforts have been undertaken in areas such as agriculture, rural development and small-scale industries, through development
interventions that create new income and employment opportunities. The
social sectors, such as health and population, education and training,
water supply and low-income housing, are other areas where developmental activities can offer specific benefits for women. Gender considerations are now an essential part of country operational strategies and

  

 

 

 

 

. programs. Country profiles prepared by the Bank specifically dea! with

aspects that reflect the status of women.

During 1995, women-in-development considerations were particularly addressed in projecis dealing with water supply, rural
microenterprise financing, provision of health services and education.
Technical assistance projects undertaken during the year addressed credit
for wornen, human development considerations related to women and
the direct impact of Bank projects on the status of women.

The Bank participated in the Fourth Worle Conference on Women
held in Beijing. At the annual Board of Governors’ meeting in Auckland,
a seminar was organized to examine specific aspects of the Bank’s
involvernent in women in development.

Human Development: Human development is meant to improve
pecple’s skills, productivity and quality of life for sustainable and acceleralec economic growth. It encompasses considerations such as improved
health and population-related services, better education, more dependable water supply and sanitation facilities, anc urban and rural develop- ©
ment.

For the Bank, this is an expanding area of activity. In 1995, 20 of
che 66 public sector arojects approved showed human development as a
specific objective. Education, health care, and water supply and sanitation

 

 

i

 

OPERATIONAL PRIORITIES AND POLICIES

 

Schoe! children

in Cambodia:

For the Bank,
human development
is an expanding
orea

of activity.

 

73ANNUAL REPORT 1995

 

  

were areas of particular concern
Specific details of Bank activities on human development are
discussed in the section of this reporl dealing with Social Infrastructure

  
   
 
 
 
 
 
    
 

Consideration

of vulnerable Protection of Vulnerable Groups: In general, vulnerable groups
are those that are excluded from the benefits of development or that are i
groups unable to absorb the economic, sacial and environmental shocks that hs

sometimes result from changes brought about by development. Such I
groups include indigenous and tribal populations, ethnic and cultural i
minorities, old and new immigrants, illegal settlers and urban squatters, |
children, the aged and disabled persons. Also considered vulnerable are

people at the very botiom of the existing socioeconomic structure who do

is regarded
by the Bank
as an important

 

 

means to nat have the capacity to participate in mainstream economic activity. In ‘

impro ve project extreme cases, it may be necessary to create social safety nets and ;

” compensation mechanisms for them. |

qua 1 ity Consideration of vulnerable groups is regarded by the Bank as an f

an d important means to improve project quality and project implementation. L

; In processing all new projects, it considers the impact its development i
imp lementation. interventions may have on vulnerable groups. '

A new policy was approved in 1995 on involuniary resettlement to
ensure that people displaced by Bank projects receive assistance, preferably under the project, so that they would be at least as well off as they
would have been in the absence of the project. Staff instructions were
issued to require a poverty impact assessment in the preparation of
program loans.

In connection with the preparation of a working paper on indig- ,
enous peoples in development, the Bank organized a first-ever consultation meeting with representatives of indigenous peoples’ groups to seek
their views and to review its own policy initiatives so far.

 

 

The Bank continues to emphasize the importance of social infra- i
structure in its operational priorities not only to enhance the quality of
people’s lives, particularly that of lower-income groups, but also to sustain
economic growth in the longer term. Investments in education, health
and population, water supply and sanitation, and urban developrnent and
housing are made to further the social sector goals of both the Bank and
its borrowing DMCs. The Bank supports initiatives for private sector
involvement in these sectors. Expanding the poor's access to primary
health care and sanitation facilities; improving basic skills and technical, ;
vocational and nonformat education; ensuring adequate and safe water
supply; and providing the basic infrastructure are among the major
objectives. Strengthening social sector institutions and capacity building
are considered critical in achieving these objectives and the broad social
sector goals. '

The Bank's specific objectives in the social subsectors are as follows: |

Education: Many of the Bank's DMCs are paying increasing q
attention to expanding primary, secondary and nonformal education to
ensure that access to educational services is equitable. Likewise, the Bank i
emphasizes investments in education to contribute to DMCs’ efforts in
asset building for the poor and capacity building for the nation. Particular i
attention is paid to expanding educational opportunities for women and
the poor, Over time, the focus has shifted from physical facilities to

| Social Infrastructure i
|
{

 

5
\
|i
i
i
k
i

 

|
&
|
|
|
i
t
k
i
i
i
i
t
f

 

 

OPERATIONAL PRIORITIES AND POLICIES

 

curriculum and institutional development, and sectorai planning and
management.

Nhile projects in. Bangladesh, Cambodia, Malaysie and Pakistan
have emphasized basic skills and nonformal, technical anid vocational
education, secondary and postsecondary education are the focus ir
Indonesia and Lae People’s Democratic Repudlic (Lao PDR). An education sector master plen in the Kyrgyz Republic and an education
subsector study in Kazekksian are being supported to idertify key human
cevelopment strategies for ihe two Cenval Asiar. republics. Technical
assistance grants are being used for an education master plan in Maidives. ,
a human development sector study in India, and an education sector
strategy in Nepal. Efforts to strengthen the manegement capability of
specific educational institutions are being undertaken in Bangladesh,
Cambodia, People’s Republic o? China (PRC), Pekistar., Philippines and
Sri Lanka. These efforts reflect the Bank's concerr: about povicy and
institutional issues involving the subsector as a whole.

Heakh and Population: The Bank’s main objective in this
subsector is to widen people's access to and improve the quality of
primary health care and family planning services. Projects are aimed at
ensuring the effective functioning of health referral networks, preventive
and primary health services, control of communicable diseases and the |
integration of health activities with related community services in family i
planning and nutrition. The Bank also emphasizes the importance of
strengthening the management and financing of health systems.

In providing assistance, the Bank seeks to be flexible and responsive
to the specific needs of DMCs. Attention is focused on high-risk populetions, particularly the poor, children and women of reproductive age.
DMCs are encouraged to allocate sectoral resources more equitably and
efficiently.

The Banx’s population policy, approved in 1994, seeks to integrate
family planning with health and community development efforts, andto |
create an environment that will promote reproductive heaith and reduce © |
family size. The enhancement of the educational, economic and social !
status of women and access to family planning services are considered 1
key elements in this respect. The Bank’s technical assistance is being used
to prepare health and nutrition projects in Bangladesh, Indonesia,
Mongolia, Philippines and Viet Nam, end to decentralize neaith service
delivery in Indonesia and Kazakhstan. Projects io enhance the quality of
reproductive health care in Indonesia, support early childhood development in the Philippines and sustain the health of the working population,
also in the Philippines, are among the Bank’s other activities in this
subsector.

Water Supply and Sanitation: The provision of adequate,
reliable and safe drinking water, and effective sanitation and wastewater
disposal facilities are among the major goals in this subsector. An
integrated approach to the use and conservation of water resources for
human consumption is encouraged. Such an approach makes water
allocation more efficient, strengthens the sustainability of weter sources
and ensures consumer access to water over the long run. This helps
improve public health, reduce poverty and enhance the quality of the
environment. In respect of rural water supply and sanitation services,
beneficiary involvement and participatory approaches are favored to
Sustain pro‘ect inves:ments.

indonesia, Pakistan, Philippines, Thailand and Viet Nam received

  

 

 

  

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Adequate, reliable
and safe supply

of drinking water
is one of the
Bank's major social
concerns.ANNUAL REPORT 1995

 

 

 

Addressing Social Concerns: Rural Water Supply and
Sanitation Sector Project in Indonesia

A BOUT 3 million people in the Indonesian territories of
Kalimantan and Sumatra, 80% of whom live below the poveriy
line, will benefit from the Bank’s Rural Water Supply and
Sanitation Sector Project in that country. The project is a typical
example of how the Bank addresses social concerns’in its operations.

The project, based on a community approach, is designed to
provide reliable water supply and sanitation services, and improve
health and hygiene education, for 3,000 low-income rural communities in the 12 provinces of the two territories.

In implenienting the project, a particlpatory and demand-led
approach will be followed, Beneliciaries will be involved in determining service levels, Village development councils will be responsible for part of the capital costs during construction (through the
provision of labor) and for the full costs of operation and maintenance later, Subprojecis will be prepared, implemented, operated
and maintained in consultation with and direct participation of
communities.

Non-governmental organizations will be involved in subproject planning and construction, health and hygiene education,

Thailand.

 

operation and maintenance training, and the monitoring and
evaluation of subprojects.

The improved water supply and sanitation services planned
under the project will benefit women in particular, since collecting
and storing water is mainly their responsibility, By reducing their
physical burden, the project will enable women to engage in more
productive activities. An important role for women is foreseen as
educators and disseminators of information about hyglenic practices and the proper use of water supply and sanitation facilities.

The projectis expected to reduce the incidence of waterborne
diseases over time and thus improve the health of the communities
it serves. Productivity will increase, as will the quality of life. Since
community participation is central to achieving the project's
human development goals, a community information program has
been included in the project.

The total cost of the project is estimated at $142 million. In
February 1995, the Bank approved a Joan of $85 million from its
ordinary capital resources to support the project. The remaining
cost will be shared by the central, provincial and local governments,
and the beneficiary communities.

Le A aay

Bank support in this subsector in 1995. Technical assistance is being
used to prepare investment projects in Cambodia, PRC, Nepal and

Urban Development and Housing: The Bank’s urban development projects are aimed at improving urban infrastructure (e.g., water
supply, drainage, sewerage, solid waste management, urban transportation and housing) to help DMCs cope with rapid urbanization. Since
urban centers have become important growth centers in many DMCs, the
Bank seeks to strengthen national and local government agencies
responsible for urban planning and management. Maintaining a balanced
regional development through the decentralization of economic activity,
away from high-growth urban centers, is favored. Measures to expand
revenue generation, particularly at the local level, through the introduction of cost-recovery mechanisms, a broadening of the tax base, fees and
consumer charges, and efficient collection are supported. The Bank also
promotes the participation of the private sector in urban development
and the contracting out of public services.

The development of physical infrastructure to meet basic needs and
improve living conditions was the focus of projects in Bangladesh, India,
Indonesia and Lao PDR, approved in 1995. Technical assistance was
approved to prepare urban development projects in Bangladesh, India,
Lao PDR and Thailand.

Environmental Policies and Priorities

It is the Bank’s policy to promote environmentally sound develop
ment. In fulfilling this commitment, the Bank: (i) systematically examinesOPERATIONAL PRIORITIES AND POLICIES

 

the environmental impact of its projects, programs and policies;

{ii} encourages DMC governments and executing agencies to incorporate
environmental protection measures in their project design and implementation procedures, and provides technical assistance for this purpose:

(ii) promotes projects and prograrns that wil! protect, rehabilitate and
enhance the environment and the quality of life; and (iv) trains Bank and
DMC staff in, and provides documentation on, envirénmenta! aspects of
economic development.

The Bank will continue to offer support for developing environmental policies, building capacity for environmental management, implementing projects with environmental objectives and promoting regional
cooperation in environmental affairs. It will demand environmental
assessment reports from its borrowers. Efforts will be made to ensure that
adequate beneficiary participation has taken place during the environmental assessment process, possible alternatives have been explored, and
the costs and benefits have been compared. Environmental economic
analyses of selected sensitive and strategically important projects will be
undertaken. Sectoral reviews will be made of completed environmental
impact assessments of projects to draw lessons and identify alternatives or
improvements. Studies wili be initiated to develop a conceptual fremework in designing projects or programs with environmental objectives.
Financing schemes will be developed to help small and medium-scale
enterprises interested in adopting clean technologies and processes.

Country operational strategies on the environment will continue to
be more focused and analytical to make assistance to DMCs more
effective. Timely updates will be made of country environment papers to
serve as inputs for country strategy and programming tasks. Greater use
will be made of country program and portfolio performance review
missions to monitor borrowers’ compliance with environmental aspects
mentioned in loan covenants. Cooperation with various regional and
international organizations, including non-governmental organizations
(NGOs), will continue.

Cooperation with NGOs

The Bank recognizes cooperation with NGOs as one of the keys to
achieving its strategic objectives. It regards as particularly important the
role that NGOs can play as grassroot implementation agencies.

The Bank’s project activities have shown a steadily increasing level of
NGO involvement at all stages of the project cycle. NGOs are similarly
involved in technical assistance activities. Cooperation with NGOs takes
the form of basic information sharing; practical assistance in identifying,
developing and implementing programs and projects; inputs for developing country assistance plans; and consultation on operational and sectoral
policies.

Consultation meetings with NGOs are held regularly, both informally
to address specific policy and project questions, and formally during such
events as the Bank’s Annuai Meeting. During 1995, an extensive review
of the Bank’s cooperation with NGOs was undertaken. At the Annual
Meeting in Auckland, a seminar was organized to examine specific
aszects of such cooperation.ANNUAL REPORT 1995

 

Improving Project Quality

 

Following completion of the work of the Task Force on Improving
Project Quality in 1994, a number of wide-ranging initiatives were taken \
in 1995 to implement its recommendations. |

The principal recommendation was to shift the emphasis of Bank |
operations from fulfilling lending and resource transfer targets to effective i
implementation of projects and realization of their developmental impact. ‘|
This implied, inter alia, more extensive project preparation, increased !
efforts to enhance the commitment and institutional capacities of borrow- ul
ers and executing agencies, greater involvement of beneficiaries at all :
stages and more attention to project supervision on the part of the Bank. i

Action was taken in all these respects during 1995. The country {1
focus sharpened as a result of the Bank’s reorganization. Anew format |
was adopted for country assistance plans. Country program and imple- j
mentation review meetings were combined to enhance linkages between i
country operational strategy and the selection and design of projects. In ty
recognition of the importance of local ownership and commitment to (
development projects, participatory approaches were incorporated in
Bank operations, and long-term programs to strengthen institutional
capacities in key sectors and agencies were being devised.

To enhance project quality “at entry,” the processing cycle was
adjusted to enable better project preparation, including fuller consultation
with all parties concerned. Use of the project (logical) framework was
made compulsory for al} projects to clearly identify the relationships
between expected outputs and ultimate objectives, and the various
activities and inputs provided under the project. Consideration ofa
project brief prior to fact finding was also made mandatory so that inputs
could be obtained on key design, policy and institutional issues during
early stages of the project cycle.

Steps were taken to allocate more resources for project supervision.
The number of review missions as well as the time spent in the field
increased, and resident missions started to assume more responsibilities.
Efforts were made to ensure greater continuity of Bank staff, especially
during the processing and implementation stages. The format of the
Project Administration Memorandum, which must be agreed upon prior

 

A schoolboy

in Vanuatu: to loan approval, was revised to facilitate project implementation by
Education clearly spelling out the duties and obligations of all relevant parties.

is one of the Greater use was made of feedback mechanisms to incorporate

Bank's lessons learned into the selection, design and implementation of projects.

priorities in For the first time, a comprehensive annual performance evaluation
its DMCs. program was carried out during the year, bringing together all

performance-related activities of the Bank. Also, the timing of project
performance audit reports was adjusted to permit better assessment of
project operational performance. Stronger emphasis was placed on
reevaluation and impact studies to assess overall development impacts
(see the chapter on Postevaluation and Internal Audit). Similarly, the
timing and format of project completion reports were reviewed to allow
an early evaluation of project operation and benefits.

The Bank's regional and resident missions play an important role in
i the implementation of projects and thus help enhance project quality.
These missions have been given increasing responsibility to administer
complex projects. Their contributions in facilitating disbursements have
also been substantial.OPERATIONAL PRIORITIES AND POLICIES

 

Support for Capacity Building and
Governance

In April, staff guidelines on capacity-building services to DMCs were
prepared and circulated. A major lesson embodied in the guidelines is
that assistance for capacity building, if provided on a piecemeal basis, is
neither effective nor sustainable. Accordingly, the guidelines require that
the Bank adopt a longer-term perspective in providing capacity-building
services and follow a holistic approach taking careful’ account of the many
faceis of DMC institutions.

Country assistance plans prepared annually for each DMC are
required to specify capacity building objectives that have been agreed, in
principle, with the governments concerned. The Bank’s assistance is
largely focused on strengthening: fi) policy analysis and sector planning,
effective management and delivery of public sector services, and
(iii) governrnent capacity to create an environment conducive to the
growth of the private sector.

The Bank is in the process of establishing a database of local
expertise and resource institutions that can be tapped for capacitybuilding efforts. Training programs and materials on capacity-building
processes are under preparation.

  

Policy Support

With the adoption of policy support as a key operating objective in
the Bank's 1995-1998 Medium-Term Strategic Framework, increased
emphasis is being placed on policy analysis and policy reform ir: all
lending, technical assistance and advisory activities.

Policy-based program lending continues to play an important part in
this effort to encourage the adoption of sound policies in the Bank's
DMCs. After a relative decline during the previous two years, program
lending increased ta $575 million in 1995. The Bank continued to
support the transition process in the formerly centrally planned economies of Central Asia and Mongolia, through program loans aimed at
increasing the market orientation and efficiency of their agriculture
sectors. Prograrn loans for capital market development were provided to
India and Philippines to strengthen the policy and regulatory frameworks
of their securities markets and thereby enhance their ability to mobilize
long-term debt and equity capital for development.

The concern for policy analysis and policy reform, however, goes
beyond program lending. Increasingly, the processing of sector and
project loans also includes dialogue with government authorities on policy
and institutional issues. These issues are then reflected in the conditions
or covenants of loan approval. Similarly, economic and sector work as
well as technical assistance operations are designed to support an agenda
of policy dialogue and reform. A large number of technical assistance
Projects are specifically designed to analyze policy issues or to strengthen
the capacity of key agencies for policy formulation.

The linkage between the Bank’s policy support objectives and its
Operational program is being formalized in the new format of the country
assistance plans. The format now includes a synopsis of the policy
support program in each DMC.

The Bank’s policy agenda encompasses a wide range ofANNUAL REPORT 1995

The Second
NGO-Microcredit
Project

in the Philippines
has helped the poor
find new

income opportunities,
like setting up

retail stores.

 

 

 

macroeconomic issues, including reguiaiory and legal frameworks, the
scope for private sector participation, pricing and tariffs, cost recovery,
good governance, decentralization and beneficiary participation, and
social and environmental concerns. With the increased emphasis on
policy support, the Bank sees its role not only as a major project financier
supporting specific capital investments, but increasingly as a broader
development catalyst.

Participatory Approaches to Development

Participatory approaches are an important element of the development process that allows individuals and groups to identify, formulate,
implement and evaluate policies, programs and projects that affect them
Such interaction not only helps identify interventions that are most
appropriate, but also ensures the quality and sustainability of such
interventions. Besides, people's participation enhances the sense of
“ownership” of projects and establishes people's willingness to support
specific activities. The Bank's experience is that projects that have
included active beneficiary participation have been more successful than
those that have not. The participatory approach is particularly effective in
the identification, design and implementation of projects in agriculture
and rural development.

i
b
i

EReorganization and Its Impact
on Operations

] HE BANK’s operations in 1995 reflected a sharpening of the
country focus as a result of an internal reorganization that came into
effect in January 1995. The reorganization enhanced a country-based
distribution of responsibilities across operational activities and streamlined
the couriiry assistance planning process.

The reorganization is based on broad geographical specialization at
the regional vice-presidency level, functional specialization at the department level, and technical specialization at the division level. The regional
vice-presidents are in charge of al! opereting functions for countries under
them. Thus, coordination among operational units has improved
considerably.

Project Approvals

The total volume of Bank operations (lending and equity investments
combined) during the year amounted to $5,614 million for 83 projects,
This was a 50% increase from $3,737 million in 1994.

  
 
 
 
 
 
  
 

  

ecial Assistance >."
© Detailed Engineering (Tech

Assistarice) Loaas
Private Se
» Government

  

 

Total Lending se :

 

INVESTMENT.“ °S
z Direct Investment

 

 

 

 
 

 

Operations

BANK OPERATIONSANNUAL REPORT 1995

 

Technical Assistance Granis by Sector:

1995*
Agriculture and _
Agro-indusiry ; Mullisectos

and Others

Enevay
\

      

Finance

Industry and”
Nonfuel
Minerals

Transport and Communications
Total: $125.3 million

Social
Infrastructure:

* Excludes regional activities

    

o Technical
nis.

| pie if giants to, DMCs ac:
coutited for $125 millior:of the total grant

 

 

 

# 1994 (for séctoral breakdown, see Table 35
in the Statistical Annex). Group! A (low:

 

  
   

ient... Group, B (middle-in
ed 23% (20% in 1994), Thdon

   
  

3% (same as in 1 994). For an explanation of
country classification, see page 81. «
Of the iechriical assistance corniponents

mentation purposes, and 1% for project preparation. Group A DMCs received about 38% of

1994}, Group B DMCs 61% (69% in 1994)
- and Group C DMCs 1% (none in 1994).

   
 

 

82

  
  

 

, assistance in 1995; an ificiteage of 20% from

“\néomrie) DMCs received "74% of the countrys. 4
Specific grants (77% in 1994). ‘PRC-was the:

 

sia béitig the major recipient. GroupC (highe?- .
income) DMCS aééourited for the remaining‘ °

of loans, amountitig to $335 million, 999%.”
was provided fo¥ advisory and project imple=. "|

the total technical assistance loans (31% in,

Lending: Tola! lending to both public and private seclors amounted
to $5,504 million, against last year's level of $3,687 million, reflecting an
increase of aboul 49%. Loans from ordinary capital resources (OCR)
increased by 61% to $4,049 million. Those from the concessionary
Asian Development Fund (ADF) increased by 24% to $1,455 million.

Of the total lending, government and government-guaranteed loans
accounted for $5,418 million, comprising $3,963 million from OCR and
$1,455 million from ADF. In [he privale sector, six direct loans amounting to $87 million were approved without government guarantee.

Equity Investments: The Bank approved 11 equity investments in
the private sector amounting to $110 million.

Since its inception and as of end-1995, the Bank had approved
public and private sector loans for 1,294 projects in 34 developing
member countries (DMCs). The Bank's equity operations, which began in
1983, reached a cumulative total of $388 million in direct investments
and underwriting commitments.

Technical Assistance

During 1995, technical assistance grants were approved for 297
projects, amounting to $145 million (an increase of 12.6% from 1994).
The amount included $20 million for regional activities. Technical
assistance components of loans amounted to $335 million (an increase of
72% from a year ago).

Forty-eight of the Bank's 1995 loans, involving an amount of
$3,108 million, resulted from earlier technical assistance projects. Of
this, $2,187 million was from OCR and $921 million from ADF.

The Bank's technical assistance is financed through grants or loans,
or a combination of both. Grants are funded from voluntary contribution
to the Technical Assistance Special Fund (TASF) by both developed and
developing member couniries, regularized allocation to TASF from ADF
VI, TASF income, reflows from reimbursable technical assistance, annual
transfer of OCR net income to TASF where necessary, annual contribu
tions received from Japan Special Fund (JSF) and grants fron multilateral
and bilateral sources (under cofinancing and exclusive financing arrangements). See also the section on “Cofinancing and Guarantee Operations” on page 90.

Review of Operations

Lending to the public sector during 1995 increased in both volume
(47%) and number of loans (39%) from the previous year. The increase
was largely due to higher lending to India, Indonesia, Pakistan,
Philippines and Viet Nam as well as an increase in the number and
amount of sector and program loans.

The average size of the year's loans to the public sector was
$80 million, against $75 million in 1994.

The People’s Republic of China (PRC) was again the top borrower in
1995, with $1,201 million in approvals. It was followed by indonesia
with $1,056 million, India with $630 million, Pakistan with $592 million
and Philippines with $572 million.

Energy was the top sector for Bank loans in 1995, accounting for

|
|
feOPERATIONS

 

New Operations Approved in 1995

      

kAZARHSTAN
Loge: 100m .

Sen

Note: Not to scale, Based or, the total vaiue cf loans and technical easlstance grants approved. For deczils, see operational daca in the Statistical Annex.

$1,791 million. It was followed by social infrastructure with $1,257 Technical Assistance by Sector:
million, transport and communications with $970 million, agriculture and 1990-1994*
agro-industry with $897 million and finance with $563 million.

A review of the year’s lending and technical assistance operations by er ae ,
sector follows: Gs

Agriculture and Agro-industry: The Bank’s strategy in this

 

ensure that an appropriate policy framework (both economywide and Comnaunications

sector is to reduce rural poverty and enhance the quality of life of the peal
rural people through increases in productivity, introduction of sustainable Secu
agricultural practices, diversification, value-added activities and exports.

Rural development projects support rural enterprises, rura! financial |

services and improvements in rural infrastructure. Efforts are made to | Trensport and

 

 

sector-specific) and institutional arrangements are in place. Private sector fence iat and Montiel Mingiels
Participation is encouraged and particular attention is paid to the needs of : Total: $461.13 million
women and disadvantaged groups. 1

With regard to natural resource managernent, the objective is to | Excludes regional ctv and technical assistance loans,

introduce, institutionalize and strengthen sustainable management
strategies primarily through community-based initiatives. To this end.
DMCs' efforts to improve the policy, institutional ang investment environTent are supported.
In 1995, lending for the agriculture and agro-industry sector (focusing on rura! development and natural resource management) increased by |

 

 

83~ Agté'industry

ANNUAL REPORT 1995

 

1967-1995 Grant-Financed
Technical Assistance Approvals:
Sector Distribution (by DMCs)

Agqeulture and
‘Agro industry

Enevy
Finance

Industry and

Nonfuet Minerals Group A

Group B

Multisector Group C
Sacial
Infrastructure

‘Tronsport and
Communications

‘Others,

0 40 @ 120 160 200 200
$ million

Nate: For explanations an cauntry groups, see box on page 81

AGRICULTURE & AGRO-INDUSTRY
LOANS & TA GRANTS IN 1995

Loans
2 “

$millich No.  $million No.

i

TA Grants

 

 

Irrigation & Rural
Development
Agricultural Support
Services
Forestry 2.04
Fisheries
Livestock
Industrial Crops &

381.96 9

278,64

 
  
 
 

 

113,00

896.60 - 19:

 

Total :

 

  

ENERGY LOANS AND TA GRANTS IN 1995

  
 
 

“TA

   
  

§ million : No.

 

Electric Power 1,

Natural Gas L7#: Sty
Refinery = a + ooo
Fuel Minerals - ~ 1.10 Bi
Others - oe 0.50. 22
fie BF a nett a
Total 1,791.50. il 13.57 - 34

 

10.20, 25 
over 80% from the previous year to $896.6 million for 19 projects in 11
DMCs. The major borrowing countries were Bangladesh, PRC,
Kazakhstan and Pakistan. A notable element of the 1995 lending was the
three program loans fo the transitional economies of Kazakhstan, Kyrgyz
Republic and Mongolia to develop market-based agriculiure. In addition,
48 technical assistance grants totalling $25.5 million were approved, of
which 17 were for project preparation and 31 were advisory and
operational in nature. The subsectoral distribution of loans ancl grants is
shown in the accompanying table.

The pattern of the 1995 lending reflected the Bank’s increasing
concern for poverty reduction and natural resource management. Of the
19 projects approved in 1995, five had these crosscutting issues as a
primary objective. The Small-Scale Water Resources Development Sector
Project in Bangladesh, the Farmer-Managed Irrigation Systems Project in
Indonesia and the Second Irrigation Systems Improvement Project in the
Philippines were geared toward poverty reduction, The Coastal
Greenbelt Project in Bangladesh and the Forestry Sector Project in
Pakistan were designed as environmental protection activities. The
remaining projects addressed crosscutting issues as a secondary objective.

Rural development and natural resource management projects
approved during the year placed increased emphasis on beneficiary
participation to ensure ownership of projects at the local leve} and to
promote better maintenance and sustainability of facilities. Four notable
projects with a high degree of beneficiary participation were the SmallScale Water Resources Development Sector Project and the Command
Area Development Project in Bangladesh, the Hainan Agriculture and
Natural Resources Development Project in PRC, and the FarmerManaged Irrigation Systems Project in Indonesia.

Energy: The Bank's operational policy for the energy sector is
explained on page 71. Basically, it is intended to enhance private sector
participation in funding large-scale energy projects, improve energy
efficiency and integrate environmental considerations in energy development, In the power subsector, the thrust is to introduce elements of
competition in the areas of generation, transmission and distribution.

Loans to this sector totalled $1,791 million in 1995. Of this, $1,443
million was in the power subsector. The loans reflected the DMCs’ goals
of environmental protection and energy efficiency. For example, the rural
electrification project in Bhutan, based on hydropower, was intended to
reduce the use of fuelwood for cooking and domestic heating. Efficiency
improvement was the objective of projects in Bangladesh, India, Sri
Lanka and Viet Nam. Expansion of transmission networks was the
purpose of loans to Indonesia and Philippines.

In the hydrocarbon subsector, two loans totalling $348 million were
made to PRC and Indonesia for oil and gas field development, oil
transportation, and natural gas transmission and distribution systems.

Altogether, 34 technical assistance grants were approved in the
energy sector for a total of $14 million. These were meant to support
activities such as power system planning, strategic planning, energy
efficiency efforts, institutional strengthening, environmental improvement, demand management, corporatization and financial accounting.
The subsectoral distribution of loans and grants is shown in the accompanying table.et sp wenn ia espa Seg

   

OPERATIONS

 

Finance: In the financial sector, the Bank assists DMCs in liberalizing financial regimes, restruciuring banking systems, adopting prudential
norms and sound banking practices, ard strengthening regulation and
supervision. Measures to deepen and broaden capital markets are
supported to encourage long-term domestic resource mobilization.
Assistance is provided in reducing intermediation costs and building the
financial infrastructure, e.g., the regulatory framework for securities
markets, enforcement of disclosure requirements and the development of
credit rating. Loans were made in 1995 for capital market development
in India ($250 million) and Philippines {$150 million}. The purpose of the
Indian loan was to establish the framework jor ar integrated national
market systern, modernize the support infrastructure, eliminate impediments to the market's growth and enhance competition. The Philippine
loan was the result of years of technical assistance to the Goverrment and
the private sector to support efforts to formulate comprehensive capital
market reform programs.

A loan was made to Pakisian ($100 million} for relending to eligible
public and private sector financial institutions to enable them ta finance
private sector investments in high-technology and export-oriented
industries. The loan, which was cofinancec by the World Bank for $216
million, will bring about extensive policy reforms in the financial sector in
the areas of monetary management, taxation of financial institutions,
prudential regulations, promation of long-tenn finance and debt instruments, formulation of corporate strategies for financial institutions,
enhancement of loar. recovery mechanisms and improvement in the
functioning of securities markets.

A $3 million loan was provided for the Third Cook Islands Development Bank Project to encourage private investment in development
projects, which should create employment and lead to economic growth.

In addition, 16 technical assistance grants were approved for the
sector for a total of $5.6 million to strengthen the legal framework of
various financial institutions.

 

Industry and Nonfuel Minerals: In the industrial sector, the Bank
helps DMCs to establish market-oriented policies, encourages
Privatization, prornotes reforms in state-owned enterprises, and generaily
seeks to reduce government involvement in industry.

Five technical assistance grants totalling $3 million were approved
during the year. The purposes of these grants were to promote enterprise and trade reforms, improve environmental protection, automate
customs data processing and introduce a new customs valuation system.

Social Infrastructure: Lending to the social infrastructure sector in
1995 amounted to $1,257 million for 21 projects in ten DMCs, against
$486 million for eight projects approved in 1994 for seven DMCs. This
accounted for 23% of the total Bank lending in 1995. The increase
reflected not only the high priority the Bank attaches to social sectors, but
also the strong pipeline of projects that has been developed in a number
of DMCs to better respond to their social goa's and policies.

The subsectoral distribution of loans and TA grants is shown in the
accompanying table. Six projects for water supply and sanitation,
including wastewater management and transbasin development, accounted for 35% of the lending for social infrastructure. The Rural Water
Supply and Sanitation Sector Project in Indonesia, the Majuro Water

 

 

 

_ SOURCES OF 1995 LOANS:
|:. ($ million) "

    

 

 

 

 

Loan Projects Approved in 1995:
Total Cost and Sources of Finance

 

Total: $13,472.5 million

* Includes $171 million arvarged durirg the yeer ‘or projects approved ‘n
previous yeas.ANNUAL REPORT 1995

 

SOCIAL INFRASTRUCTURE LOANS
AND TA GRANTS IN 1995

A AT

Loans TA Grants

$ million No.  $§million No.

 

 

Education 357.7 7 991 21
Health and Population 30.9 2 7.06 12
Water Supply and

Sanitation 448.2 6 665 14
Urban Development 420.0 6 666 14
a
Total 1,256.8 21 30.28 61

 

 

Supply and Sanitation Project in Marshall Islands, the Punjab Rural Water
Supply and Sanitation (Sector) Project in Pakistan, the Umiray-Angat
Transbasin Project in the Philippines and the Provincial Towns Water
Supply and Sanitation Project in Viet Nam were all designed to improve
access to adequaie, safe and reliable water supply and sanitation [acilities
in the respective project areas, particularly for low-income groups, The
projects were formulated using participatory approaches and in consultation with beneficiary communities, and were aimed at strengthening the
capacity of institutions responsible for the operation, management and
maintenance of water supply and sanitation services.

Urban development projects accounted for 33% of the social sector
lending. Six projects were approved for urban infrastructure development, one each for Bangladesh, India, Lao PDR and Philippines, and
two for Indonesia. While the development of physical infrastructure was a
major objective of most of the projects, some, like the Vientiane Integrated Urban Development Project in Lao PDR, adopted an integrated
approach and addressed the issues of water supply, drainage, solid waste
management, sanitation, roads, social action programs and institutional
strengthening. The Sumatra Urban Development Project and the West
dava Urban Development (Sector) Project in Indonesia, and the Regional
Municipal Development Project in the Philippines were aimed at improving the ability of local governments to provide basic infrastructure and
municipal services to rapidly expanding urban areas, using the integrated
approach.

Seven education projects were approved during the year for an
amount of $358 million, about 28% of the total social sector lending.
The Nonformal Education Project in Bangladesh would provide literacy
and skills training to increase the productive capacity of the poor,
particularly women, The Technical Education Project in Pakistan was
focused on improving the quality of training of industrial and engineering
technicians. The Postsecondary Education Rationalization Project in Lao
PDR would help establish a national university by restructuring small
schools and creating new faculties to meet the need for high-level
managerial and technical manpower. The Technical and Vocational
Education Project in Malaysia was designed to support the improvement
of upper secondary technical and vocational education to meet the
rapidly changing needs of industry and commerce. Two secondary
education projects were approved for Indonesia. The Private Junior
Secondary Education Project was the Bank’s first directly supporting
private education and intended to reduce the differences in standard
between private and public junior secondary schools. Similarly, the Senior
Secondary Education Project would improve the quality of graduates
preparing for postsecondary education and the labor market, A Basic
Skills Project was approved for Cambodia to help meet the need for
skilled manpower in the industry and health sectors.

Two projects were approved in the health subsector. The Primary
Health Care Project in Lao PDR was designed to improve basic health
services in remote areas, while the Integrated Community Health Project
in the Philippines was aimed at strengthening the ability of local governments to deliver quality services to disadvantaged groups. No population
project was approved during the year. However, a technical assistance
grant was approved to assist in the preparation of a population and
family health project in Viet Nam.

A total of 61 technical assistance grants amounting to $30 millioneine ect stunned eather bee pece Tae es ieieri pian bite atin so abe eat ats

 

i ea CPE

      

 

 

 

 

OPERATIONS

 

were approved during the year for the social sectors. Of these, 25 were
project preparetory technica! assistance projects, suggesting that the
project pipeline for the social subsectors rernained strong. Advisory
technica: assistance grants were approved to address issues of human
resource development and capacity building, sector studies and master
plans, and institutional and public services reforms. Four regional technical assistance grants were approved for studies on urban infrastructure
financing in the Asian and Pacific region, and regional hea!th policy
priorities, primary teacher training through distance education and
tourism training in the Greater Mekong subregion.

Transport and Communications: Eleven loans totalling $970
milion were approved for the transport and communications sector. The
subsectoral distribution of the loans and technical assistance grants is
shown in the accornpanying table

The roads subsector included loans to PRC for the construction of
toll expressways; to Lao PDR to provide all-weather road access between
the Thailand oorder at Chong Mek and the Cambodian border at Veune
Kham via Pakse town; to Mongolia to develop the road sector; to Nepal
for the improvement of national roads and rehabilitation of feeder roads;
to Thailand for the improvement of the road network; and to Pakistan for
the improvement of farm-to-market roads in four provinces. The emphasis of activities in this subsector was on improvement or rehabilitation of
facilities. .

Two loans were made to the ports subsector. Viet Nam received a
loan for the rehabilitation of Saigon Port, while a project was approved in
PRC io support economic reform by expanding port capacity at Yantai in
Shandong Province.

The airports subsector in Mongolia received a loan to upgrade
national air navigation facilities.

One loan was made te the telecommunications subsector in PRC
for a second project to improve the quality of telecommunications
services. :

Thirty-one technical assistance grants, totalling $14.5 million, were
also approved or the transport and communications sector, mainly to
suppor? project preparation, institutional strengthening, policy reforms
and service enhancement.

Environmental Activities

In. support of the Bank’s strategic developmen objectives, which
reflect DMCs’ needs, special efforts were made in 1995 to promote
projects that improve the environment. Through its technical assistance
operations, the Bank supported environmental capacity-building efforts in
PRC and India io strengthen the policy and regulatory environment.
These countries, together with Kyrgyz Republic, Lao PDR, Malaysia and
Thailand, also received assistance ito improve their environmental impact
assessment capabilities and institutional framework. Technical assistance
was provided to PRC io suppoz the transfer of clean technology ‘rom
developed countries and the use of better air quality models that would
aid in decision making and policy jormulation.

Environmental capacity building was also promoted through regional
activities focusing on environmental legislation and enviroamenial

 

 
    

 

: TRANSPORT AND COMMUNICATIONS LOANS
_ AND TA GRANTS IN 1995. :

TA Grants:

 

‘No:

 

: § million

Sectoral Distribution of Project
Approvals from OCR and ADF, 1995*

riculare and
Agro-industry

Energy

 

‘Social
Infrastructure

Transpor: anc
Communications
Multisector anc
hers

 

Cc .4 8 12 16 2 24 28 32
Per Cent .

* Per cent of tota approved iozn commitments.ANNUAL REPORT 1995

    

Sectoral Distribution of Project
Approvals: 1992-1994 (Average) and
1995 - By Value*
Agriculture and
‘Agro-Industry |
Energy

Finance |,

 

Industry and 1992-1994
Nonfuel Minerals rm, 1995
Social

Infrastructure:

Transporl and |
Communications {"!

 

Multisector and
Others epsuasseera.penaesessaccnsce: aan hae
0 5 Ww 15 20 2% 30 35

Per Cent

 

* Per cent of total approved loan cammitments,

 

 

 

 

economics. Assistance was provided to establish an environmental
information system in the Greater Mekong subregion. Selected countries
in the region also received help in improving their overall capacities to
plan, formulate and implement environmental legislation and programs,

In addition to participating in country programming missions, the
Bank’s environment specialists provided guidance in the preparation of
environment sector reports and assisted in the preparation of country
operational strategy studies and country assistance plans. Environmental
economisis were deployed in the programs departments to improve the
country focus of Bank operations.

The environmental assessment review procedure was further
improved to enhance the quality of summary environmental impact
assessment reports for sensilive projects.

An estimated $760 million worth of loans in 1995 were aimed at
protecting the environment or promoting sound natural resource management. The loans covered five projects with primary environmental
objectives and six projects with secondary environmental objectives.

One project with a primary environmental objective was the Samut
Prakarn Wastewater Management Project in one of Thailand's rapidly
industrializing areas. Under the project, wastewater collection, treatment
and disposa! facilities would be expanded and pollution prevention
measures would be introduced. A project in Pakistan was aimed at
improving the productivity of private, communal and government lands
suitable for planting trees, fodder and other crops, The project adopted
the social forestry approach to involve beneficiaries in its design, planning
and execution, Also in Pakistan, a project was approved to assist in
implementing a national drainage sector program. The Bank also assisted
Lao PDR in developing and implementing an integrated urban development project for Vientiane. Bangladesh received assistance to protect and
improve its coastal environment by increasing the vegetative cover.

Projects with secondary environmental objectives included two in
PRC (one for agriculture and natural resource development in Hainan
and the other for oil and gas development in Ping Hu); one in Indonesia
for rainfed agriculture development in Sulawesi; a plantation sector
reform project in Sri Lanka; a rural water supply and sanitation project in
Pakistan; and a water supply and sanitation project for selected provincial
towns in Viet Nam.

The Bank's role as an environmental resource center was reflected in
several of the activities undertaken during the year. These included the
preparation of a regional State of the Environment report jointly with the
United Nations Economic and Social Commission for Asia and the Pacific
(ESCAP). A review was initiated to evaluate the Bank's environmental
capacity-building effort in the region and to develop a related strategy for
the medium term. Studies were conducted to identify causal linkages
among poverty, wornen-in-development and environment issues in
selected countries; identify environmental investment opportunities; and
determine the environmental impact of hydropower projects on fisheries.
In addition, several papers were prepared for publication, including
Environmental Considerations in Program Lending, environment
sector profiles for selected countries and an Environmental Impact
Assessment Training Manual. In-house training and lectures were
arranged to enhance environmental awareness among Bank staff.

Steps were taken to strengthen regional cooperation among groups
of countries in matters such as environmental management information‘ieee apensesing

 

 

 

systerms; environmental planning; waste management; transboundary air
pollution; marine/coastal environmental management; and control of
greenhouse gas emissions.

Active collaboration was maintained with various intemational
organizations, including ESCAP, the United Nations Environmental
Programme, United Nations Development Programme, multilateral
development banks and bilateral organizations. Discussions were held
with these organizations on various issues, including national and regional
environmental action plans, financing mechanisms to mobilize resources
for funding environmental activities, global environmental issues, the
development of environmental indicators and indexes, and other measures to facilitate the implementation of national and regional environmental programs.

Private Sector Activities

Fifteen private sector projects were approved during the year,
involving an amount of $87 million in loans and $110 million in equity
investments. This was the second largest annual volume of private sector
investment approvals since the Bank began such operations over ten
years ago, For details of these projects, see Table 16 in the Statistical
Annex. .

Each project reflected the Bank's strategy of maximizing its catalytic
role in capital market development and the infrastructure sector. Several
of the investmenis were the first of their kind - for example, investments
in a regional company ‘o finance private sector infrastructure projects, a
subregional fund to promote economic development in the Greater
Mekong area and a regiona! bond insurance company ~ and were
developed by the Bank in close coordination with private investors. Based
upon projections, the Bank’s total 1995 private sector investment
approvals are expected to mobilize additional funds iotalling $1,489
million. This would indicate that for every $1 invested by the Bank, an
additional $7.6 would be mobilized from the private sector.

 

Law and Development

in recent years, the Bank and many of its member governments have
increasingly focused on the relationship between law and economic and
social development. :

During the year, the Bank approved, implemented or completed
50 law-related technical assistance and loan projects. These projects
cealt with a broad range of subjects, such as strengthening environmental
impact assessment and environmental legislation in India; improving
the regulatory framework for import of hazardous and toxic materials
in Bangladesh: strengthening the banking system in the Kyrgyz Resubiic;
preparing national regulations for the public sector in Lao PD!
strengthening social services delivery and finance in Kazakhstan;
developing an institutional and regulatory fremework for the leasing
industry in Sri Lanka; strengthening Tuvalu’s foreign investment
amework; and revising procurement regulations in Viet Nam as part of
institutional strengthening of the Government's Nationa! Oifice for
Procurement Evaluation.

 

OPERATIONS

 

Private Sector Loans, Equity Investments
and Underwritings

$ Million
2a Loans

Equity investmenss
Hf Equity Underwritings

 
       
    
 

 

200) 191.1

160} 156.8

120

1990 «1991 3992-1993 2995,ANNUAL REPORT 1995

 

 

Cofinancing Arrangements
§ Million

1990-1991 1992-1993 1994-1995

Ee! 90

 

 

 

 

Assistance continued to be provided to Mongolia for developing a
legal framework and formulating legal training programs to meet the
needs of a market economy. In PRC, the Bank provided technical
assistance for stale enterprise insolvency reform in support of the
Government's proposed new law on insolvency of state-owned and other
enterprises.

A workshop was held in Ulaanbaatar 1o assess the state of development of the Mongolian legal system and a conference was organized in
Beijing on the question of bankruptcy and reorganization of state-owned
enterprises.

A regional technical assistance grant was approved for 1995/96 to
hold training workshops for midcareer government lawyers in Cambodia,
PRC, Mongolia and Viet Narn and to study the opportunities for the
development of continuing legal education programs al lacal and regional
institutions.

The Bank also approved a major study on the role of law and legal
institutions in Asian economic development.

in May, during the Twenty-Eighth Annual Meeting of the Board of
Governors in Auckland, New Zealand, a seminar on Law and Development was held to focus on legal issues relating to {i) the corporatization
and privatization of state enterprises in the Bank's DMCs, and (ii) private
sector infrastructure development through build-own-operate and buildown-operate-transfer arrangements.

Cofinancing and Guarantee Operations

The Bank continued to pursue its efforts as a catalyst to increase
financial resource flows to DMCs through cofinancing, project finance
and guarantee operations, especially in view of the huge investment need
for infrastructure development in the Asian and Pacific region. It has
become necessary to enhance the Bank’s capacity to leverage its own .
limited resources with international and regional private capital. With that
objective in mind, the Board of Directors approved revisions to the
Bank's cofinancing strategy and guarantee policy in April (see page 70).

In 1995, cofinancing mobilized from all sources amounted to
$2,482 million, which was 45% of the Bank's total Jending for the year.
The amount represented a 58% increase over that of the previous year.
In other words, for every $1 lent by the Bank, 45¢ was mobilized
through the cofinancing function.

Cofinancing operations continued to focus on treditional infrastructure projects. The energy sector received the biggest share of cofinancing
(509%), followed by transport and communications (16%) and agriculture
and agro-indusiry (15%).

Altogether, nine countries received cofinancing in 1995. Pakistan
received the largest share (26%), followed by Philippines (22%), Indonesia
and Thailand (15% each). The largest amount of cofinancing arranged
was for a power generation and transmission project in the Philippines
($523 million). Pakistan received $385 million for its national drainage
program and Thailand $300 million for regional roads.

Official cofinancing reached a historical record of $2,266 rnillion,
a 92% increase over the previous year, and accounted for 91% of total
cofinancing. About $1,322 million was provided by bilateral agencies and
$944 million by multilateral institutions. Bilateral cofinancing support was

 

i‘
i
:received from six countries, namely, Australia, France. Germany, Japan,
Netherlands and Switzerland. Japan continued to be the largest source of
official cofinancing. It cofinanced nine projects for a total of $1 billion —
$463 million from the Overseas Economic Cooperation Fund (OECF)
and $559 million from the Export-Import Bank of Japan (EXIM Bank).
Since February 1993, when the Board of Governors of the European
Investment Bank (EIB) authorized it to operate outside the European
Union, EIB’s lending to Asia through cofinancing with the Bank
amounted to $278 million cumulatively and $130 million in the year
under review. EIB has become the fourth largest cofinancier of the Bank
after EXIM Bank of Japan, OECF and the World Bank.

Cofinancing from commercial sources amounted to $216 million
for four projects?. Only a limited number of projects required such
financing during the year. All the main cofinancing modalities were
employed, namely, the Complementary Financing Scheme (CFS), parallel
loan and guarantee-supported financing. In May, a parallel syndicated
loan for $55 million was arranged for a power project in PRC. The
maturity was 15 years, and a partial guarantee backing was examined but
was noi required by the market. In November, a bond issue in the
external yen public bond market was launched by the National Power
Corporation of the Philippines with the support of the Bank’s partial
credit guarantee to partly finance the Northern Luzon Transmission and
Generation Project. The Bank guaranteed the bullet payment of the
principal of the bond, which made it possible for the borrower to extend
the maturity to 20 years and obtain a substantially lower fixed rate of
interest for a long-gesiation infrastructure project (see box). This transaction marked the beginning of efforts by the Bank to introduce high-quality
infrastructural debt to institutional investors in the bond markets,

The Bank actively pursued cofinancing for technical assistance
with octicial donors. There were voluntary contributions to TASF by both
developed and developing member countries, regularized allocation to
TASF through ADF repienishment, annual contributions to JSF and
grants from multilateral and bilateral sources. The latter were received
under cofinancing and exclusive financing arrangements, including grant
financing of soft components processed together with the Bank's loan
projects. The donors included the United Nations Development
Programme, the World Bank and the Governments of Australia, Denmark, Finland, France, Netherlands, Norway, Sweden and Switzerland.

The Government of Japan made its eighth yearly contribution to JSF
amounting to ¥10,68 billion ($105 million equivalent) in untied grant
assistance. Grants from bilateral and multilateral sources, where the Bank
acted as the grant administrator, amounted to $9.4 million. Other
bilateral donors, such as Netherlands and Switzerland, continued to
provide untied grant assistan:ce to finance soft components included in
Bank loans. ,

During 1995, the Bank made efforts to simplify cofinancing arrangements and improve consultation with its main official cofinanciers. A
streamlined set of procedures was established with the EXIM Bank of
Japan, whereby resources could be mobilized expeditiously. Cooperation
with the Nordic Investment Bank and the Nordic Development Fund was
formalized in 1995 in the form of a memorandum of understanding. The

 

 

 

 

 

tics fer commercial cofizaccing are based or finencal closing, unlike in the case of official
ancing where records are dased or. the commitments of the co‘inanciers.

 

 

OPERATIONSANNUAL REPORT 1995

GRANT-FINANCED TECHNICAL
ASSISTANCE FROM OTHER SOURCES, 1995*
(Amounts in $ thousand)

UE EUS!

 

Number of
Agency Projects Amount
Australia 3 230.0
Denmark 4 2,087.0
France 3 2,185.0
Netherlands 2 325.0
Norway 3 1,878.0
UNDP 1 628.9
United Siates % 1,998.0
World Bank _ 1 25.0
Total 18" 9,356.9

* Administered by the Bank, ay
** A project financed from mord than one source ls counted es one,

RESOURCE TRANSEER TO DMCs
on)" el sceh alee

   

 

 

 

Bank continued to hold semi-annual consultations with OECF and EXIM
Bank of Japan. All in all, 30 formal cofinancing consultations were held
during the year with 24 bilateral and multilateral donor agencies.

The Bank’s new cofinancing strategy calls for a more proactive
arrangement of export credits for public sector projects. In this regard,
consultations were initialed with various export creclit agencies and
guarantee boards, the Berne Union and other multilateral development
banks which have similar objectives.

Since the Bank’s inception and as of end-1995, 407 loan projects
and programs had received cofinancing for a cumulative total of $21.9
billion.

Bank’s Role in Resource Transfer

The net transfer of resources (defined as disbursements less principal
repayments and prepayments, payments of interest and other charges
plus net equity investments) from the Bank to the DMCs decreased from
$1,100 million in 1994 to $794 million in 1995. This meant a decrease
of 28%, compared with an increase of 18% in the previous year.

Of the total net transfer, a negative $107 million was from OCR and
a positive $901 million from ADF, The net transfer from OCR was
negative mainly because of prepayments by PRC, Fiji, India, Republic of
Korea, Philippines and Thailand, which arnounted to $330 million.

Loan disbursernents amounted to $3,587 million. The amount
exceeded the year’s target, although it was down by 3% from last year.
There was a decline in disbursements from both OCR (2.4%) and ADF
resources (3.5%). Bangladesh, Pakistan, Philippines and Thailand
experienced decreases in disbursements.

The disbursement ratio (including program loans), defined as the
ratio of disbursement during the year over the undisbursed net loan
balance at the beginning of the year plus effective loans approved during
the year, was 18.2%, compared to 18.7% in 1994,

By volume of net flow, Bangladesh, PRC, India and Pakistan were
the top four recipients of net transfers from the Bank. The DMCs that
experienced negative transfer were Fiji, Indonesia, Republic of Korea,
Malaysia, Myanmar, Papua New Guinea, Philippines, Solomon Islands
and Thailand.

For detatls of net transfer, see tables 36-38 in the Statistical
Annex. .

Economic Research and
Development Studies

The Bank’s research activities are intended to support its operations
as well as uphold its role as a resource center. In 1995, regional technical
assistance projects were initiated to study the Brunei DarussalamIndonesia-Malaysia-Philippines East ASEAN Growth Area as well as
social sector issues and concerns in the transitional economies of Asia.
Studies that were under implementation during the year included economic implications of the emerging trading environment; financial sector
policies of selected DMCs; public finance issues in the transitionaleconomies of Asia; and financing human development in Asia.
g Conferences and seminars were held on various economic issues.
© These included a training workshop on antidumping and countervailing
! measures organized in New Delhi jointiy with the General Agreement on
Tariffs and Trade, and a conference on regiona! cooperation and integration in Asia held jointly with the Organisation for Economic Co-operation
and Development in Paris.

In the area of project quality improvements, several sieps were taken
to enhance the economic analysis of projects prior to loan approval.
These included the preparation of necessary guidelines and a draft policy

paper on Bank criteria for subsidies. A study was mace on the methodol' ogy for estimating economic benefits of telecommunications projects and
an initial study was undertaken of the socioeconomic impact of infrastructure projects using the Yao-Mao railway in PRC as an example. A
regional technical assistance grant was approved to develop a methodology for the economic analysis of projects under different financing
arrangements, such as the build-own-operate-transfer mechanism. Interim
guidelines for the economic analysis of water supply projects were
approved. .

The Bank continued to improve its statistical database system in
terms of data coverage and upgrade its facilities to provide better service
in support of Bank operations as well as to external users. Database
inkages with other international organizations and with DMCs were aiso
improved, Technical assistance projects were approved to develop 2
ender database system in Pakistan, hold an international conference on
information systems of transitional countries, and improve the social and
conomic databases in the Pacific DMCs.

As part of its efforts to strengthen institutions and human developent in DMCs, the Bank organized training programs on taxation and
inanciai policies for policymakers. Some of the training activities were
‘undertaken in collaboration with other development institutions, such as
the Association of Development Research and Training Institutes of Asia
and the Pacific. A new program was launched in collaboration with the
Intemational Monetary Fund on macroeconomic management for
government officials from transitional economies. The format of the
Bank’s ongoing special secondment scheme was substantially modified to
better reflect the needs of DMC government officials.

 

 

OPERATIONS

 

1995 Net Transfer of ADB Resources
to DMCs

3B Nex Transfer

Group. © Gross Disbursements

Group B

 

Group A
ith 8
-500 Qo 500 1,000 1,500.°2,000 2,500
$ MillionCountry Highlights

I HIS CHAPTER provides brief accounts of the Bank’s operational
strategies, policy discussions, lending and technical assistance activities,
and project implementation in its borrowing DMCs. Policy dialogue on
both macro and microeconomic issues forms an increasingly important
part of the Bark’s efforts to improve the climate for economic develepment in its DMCs.

For details of country operations, see the Statistical Annex (Tables 914 for loans by country and sector, Tables 22-30 for contract awards and :
disbursements, and Tables 31-35 for technical assistance grants). . "
The DMCs are arranged alphabetically. Uzbekistan became the 56th | :
member of the Bank in 1995. but there were no operations there during |
the year. It was the third Centra! Asian republic to join the Bank, after
Kazakhstan and Kyrgyz Republic.

Bangladesh

Operational Strategy: Bank strategy for Bangladesh focuses on
poverty reduction. The emphasis is on creating econornic opportunities
for the poor and improving their access to basic social services through
equitable and sustainable growth. Human develooment comprises a
significant component of the Bank’s operations in the country in support
of economic growth. There is added emphasis on policies and projects which directly benefit women and provide them with education, employment and income opportunities. The Bank pays serious attention to
protecting and improving the environment. Broadbased economic
growth will Se promoted through greater market orientation. and support
will be given to enhance private sector participation. Policies and projects
which favor the productive and sustainable use of labor will be adopted to
make growth more equitable.

 

Policy Dialogue: Policy dialogue centered on improving the
effictency and accountability of the Bangladesh Railways through instituional and organizational reforms. Discussions were held on an area
development plan for the northwest region to seize opportunities created
by the Jamuna Bridge te reduce regional disparities in respect of jobs and
incomes. Reforms in the power subsector were encouraged to improve

 

its financial viability and long-term sustainability. The Bank promoted Bangladesh: : p
beneficiary participation in the design and implementation of srnalkscale Lending and Disbursements
irrigation systems to improve their sustainability and cost recovery. In the vn ane
urban sector, the Bank continued its efforts to make municipalities 800

financially viable. The proposed Urban Poverty Reduction and Primary soo} Anoual, 1991-1995

Health Care projects will help the Bank target the urban poor directly.

Loans and Technical Assistance: In 1995, the Bank provided
seven loans amounting to $246 million, including a private sector loan
without government guarantee. The loans were for projects in the ae
agriculture and agro-industry, energy, industry and social infrastructure = Disbursements

   

   

ther and child at a population clinic in Indonesia. The Bank has provided ioans
‘aliing $120.9 militon to improve health and population services in the country.ANNUAL REPORT 1995

 

Cumulative Bank Lending to Bhutan
(As of 31 December 1995)

ee ummm
Amount of
No. of Loans

 

Sector Loans (S$ million) %
ag tlle
Multisector 2 12.4 24.1
Social Infrastructure 2 10.4 20.3
‘Transport and

Communications 2 9.7 18.8
Agriculture and

Agro-industry 2 78 15.1
Energy 1 75 14.6
Finance 1 25 49
Industry and

Nonfuel Minerals 1 1.2 2.2
Total 11 51.5 100.0

NA

Bhutan:
Lending and Disbursements
Staton ,

Annual, 1991-1995

1991 1992 1993 1994 1995

a) Lending £3 Disbursements

 

 

 

sectors. The Bank also approved 11 technical assistance granis totalling
$5.5 million, of which $2.6 million was lor project preparation.

Project Implementation: Of the 121 loans approved as of end1995, 79 had been closed and 42 were under aclministration, Contracts
worth $308 million were awarded during the year, bringing the curnulative total of contracts to $3,310 million. Disbursements for the year
tolalled $279 million, bringing cumulative disbursements to $3,189
million. The Bangladesh Resident Mission continued to assist the Govern
ment in coordinating and monitoring Bank projects and programs, as
well as in the dialogue on policy issues. A portfolio performance review
mission was undertaken to deal with issues concerning project irnplementation and quality.

Bhutan

Operational Strategy: The Bank aims at assisting Bhutan’s efforts
to move toward a more diversified economy. It will help enhance the
country's capacily to earn convertible foreign exchange and develop its
capacity for macroeconomic management. Lending will be focused on
infrastructure projects, including power, roads and urban development.
The financial sector and environmental protection will also be emphasized. Technical assistance will continue to be focused on a broad range
of sectors where capacity building is required, including agriculture,
physical infrastructure and social infrastructure.

Policy Dialogue: Private sector operations have been hindered by
lack of infrastructure, a small base of entrepreneurs, labor shortage and
the difficult terrain. The Bank encouraged a more transparent and liberal
commercial environment to help promote private sector activities. The
Government continues to aim at financing all its recurrent expenditures
by domestic resources and development expenditures by external grants
and soft loans. To improve revenue prospects before any major projects
come on stream, it will be particularly important to broaden the base for
tax revenues, introduce user fees and improve cost recovery. In the
meantime, increased efforts will also be needed to prevent any prolonged
deterioration in the fiscal situation.

Loans and Technica! Assistance: One loan of $7.5 million was
approved during the year for a rural electrification project. Two technical
assistance grants, totalling $546,500, were also approved.

Project Implementation: Of the 11 loans approved as of end1995, seven had been closed and four were under implementation.
Contracts amounting to $4.7 million were awarded during 1995,
bringing the cumulative total to $33 million. Disbursements during the
year amounted to $3.5 million and brought cumulative disbursements to
$31 million. A shortage of qualified staff and counterpart funds, and
administrative constraints continued to affect project implementation.COUNTRY HIGHLIGHTS

 

Cambodia

Operational Strategy: The Bank supports Cambodia's transition
to a market economy and assists the Government in strengthening sector
institutions, expanding employment opportunities for the poor, developing human resources and protecting the environment. Projects and
programs which benefit the poor, particularly in rural areas, are emphasized.

Policy Dialogue: In the light of Cambodia's transition from a
centrally planned to a market-oriented economy, discussions between the
Bank and the Government continued te be focused on macroeconomic
management, medium-term economic pianning, investment programming, and the strengthening of institutions and the legal framework.
Agriculture sector reform was an important item on the sectoral policy
agenda.

Loans and Technical Assistance: Lending in 1995 totalled
$45 million for two projects in the agriculture ane social infrastructure
sectors.-Eleven technical assistance grants were also approved, totalling
$10 million. Two of the grants were for the preparatior. of new projects.

 

 

Project Implementation: Of the five loans, totalling $143 million,
approved as of end-1995, one had been closed and four were under
administration. Contracts amounting to over $28 million were awarded
during “he year, bringing the cumulative contract total to $72 million.
Disbursements in 1995 totalled $36 million, bringing cumulative disbursements to $54 million. As the country is in the midst of ransition to
a market economy, institutional, financial and human resource constraints
were encountered in project implementation.

People’s Republic of China

Operational Strategy: The Bank’s current operational strategy in
the People’s Republic of China (PRC) emphasizes three broad objectives:
(i) improvement of economic efficiency; (ii) environmental protection and
supports market-oriented reforms and the development of appropriate °
institutional systems. Critical issues associated with rapid economic
growth, such as transport bottlenecks, energy shortages, water shortages
for agriculture and in urban areas, environmental degradation and
growing income disparities are also addressed. To help the
Governmem attain a more balanced regional growth, the Bank is now
paying greater attention to the less-developed inland provinces where
most of the country’s poor and minority groups ere located. Following
the fielding of a country operationa! strategy mission in September, a
revision of the strategy is contemplated, to take into account PRC's
significant socioeconomic transformation during the Eighth Plan period
(1991-1995) and the development priorities of the Ninth Plan (19962000).

Policy Dialogue: Policy discussions were focused on the need to
strengther. macroeconomic management through continued monetary,

 

 

. Cumulative Bank Lending to: Cambodia
(As of 81 December 1995) -. :

 

    
  
 
 
  

 

 

 

 

 

   
 

Amount of
age No. of Loans age
Sector Loans: ‘($ million) %
“Multisector! OS a SOR. 7B
4 2 29.9)... 20.9
Lo BE 16
ag

  

ESN 200

Cambodia:
Lending and Disbursements

$ Milion
mer

   
      

; Annual, 1991-1995

1991 1992 1993

ioe Lending

199%
*® Disbursements

Industry and :
Nontuel:Minerals
ce HS
ticulture and*:
: Agro-industry

. Mulisector :

 

 

97ANNUAL REPORT 1995

 

PRC:

Lending and Disbursements
fine

1,140| Annual, 1991-1995

sa0

‘560

 

199; 1994 1995
Lending 2 Disbursements

Cumulative Bank Lending to Cook Islands
(As of 31 December 1995)

a rr

 

. Amount of
: No. of Loans

Sector Loans ($ million) %
Finance 3 6.0 32.1
Transport and ‘

Communications 2 5.4 28.9.
Multisector 26° 3.8 20.3
Social Infrastructure 4 2.7 14.4
Agiiculturé and. :

   
    

. _ Agro-industry foe

Cook Islands:
Lending and Disbursements

$ Million
7

Annual, 1991-1995
pa

oOnNanas

1991 1992 1993 1994 1995

©) Lending f= Disbursements

Ld og

 

 

 

fiscal, financial and enterprise reforms. To facilitate the discussions,
advisory technical assistance was provided to key governmenl agencies
that formulate and implement policy reforms. ‘The Bank also discussed
the need to promote the private sector's role in developing transport,
communications and power facilities through build-operate transfer and
build-operate-own schemes as well as joint ventures in view of large
infrastructure investment requirements. Other major policy issues discussed were: (i) domestic resource mobilization through capital market
development; {ii) restructuring of state-owned enterprises and the separa
tion of social wellare functions from commercial activities of enterprises;
(ii) adoption of appropriate energy pricing to promote energy conservation and environmental protection; and {iv) investmenis in agriculture and
rural development to help reduce poverty

Loans and Technical Assistance: Ten loans totalling $1,201
million were approved in 1995. Four were for transport and communications projects ($483 million), three for energy/power ($500 million) and
three for agriculture ($218 million). A total of 45 technical assistance
grants were also approved, amounting to $18.4 million. Of these, eight
were for the preparation of new projects.

Project Implementation: Of the 48 loans approved as of end1995, nine had been closed, 39 were under implementation, including
ten waiting to become effective, During the year, contracts amounting to
$749 million were awarded, bringing cumulative contract awards to
$2,394 million. Disbursements for the year amounted to $558 million,
exceeding projections by 20.5%. Cumulative disbursements reached
$1,933 million. A country project review mission was undertaken to
discuss cross-sectoral and project-specific implementation issues. Seminars on loan disbursements, procurement and the use of consultants were
held to prepare new executing agencies for effective and smooth project
implementation.

Cook Islands

Operational Strategy: The Bank seeks to promote sustainable
economic growth within a stable macroeconomic environment by:
(} supporting policy and public sector reforms; (ii) enhancing the role of
the private sector; and (iti) developing social and physical infrastructure to
promote private sector growth and the development of the outer islands.
Improvement of human resources and protection of the environment are
also important concerns.

Policy Dialogue: Policy dialogue centered on reform of the
institutional, administrative and business processes for sound financial and
economic management. To this end, an advisory technical assistance
program was approved. Potential fiscal and debt-service problems,
matters relating to integrated urban development and issues concerning
public sector reform were also discussed.

Loans and Technical Assistance: During 1995, the Bank
approved a $3 million loan for the Third Cook Islands
Development Bank Project, and three advisory technicalCOUNTRY HIGHLIGHTS

 

assistance grants amounting io $1.4 million,

Project Implementation: Of the nine loans approved as of enc1995, five hac been closed and four were under administration, including
one waiting to become effective. Contract awards in 1995 totalled
$260,000, while disbursements arnounted to $420,000. Cumulative
contract awards and disbursements reached $11 million and
$12.5 million, respectively. Shortage of qualified staff, and weaknesses in
management and accounting systems affected project implementation.

Fiji

Operational Strategy: Bank operations in Fiji support the
Government's efforts to develop market-oriented policies and improve
public sector performance. Infrastructure development. the key to private
sector development and overall economic growth, is emphasized.
Measures to liberalize and deepen capital markets are also supported.

Policy Dialogue: Discussions were held on sector-level initiatives
and ways to introduce environmeniai legislation, encourage capital
market developrnent and improve the efficiency of public works, the
Housing Authority and the Ministry of Agriculture. Measures to promote
cost efficiency in the health sector and trade issues were also addressed.

Loans and Technical Assistance: No loan was made in 1995.
Four advisory technical assistance grants were approved, amounting to
$1.7 million.

Project Implementation: Of the 12 loans approved as of end1995, ten had been closed. Contract awards for the year amounted ta
$1.5 million, bringing the cumulative total to $113.5 million, Disbursements amounted to $9.6 million and cumulative disbursements reached
$108 million.

India

Operational Strategy: The main objective of the Bank’s strategy is
io promote efficiency and sustainable economic growth to improve
employment opportunities and incomes, and reduce poverty. To achieve
this overall objective, the Bank supports efforts to: (j} improve
macroeconomic stability and reduce sector inefficiencies; (ii) promote
competition and private sector participation through policy, regulatory
and institutional frameworks at the state level: (iii) encourage
corporatization and restructuring of the public sector; and (iv) enhance
resource mobilization through further reforms of financial and capital
markets. The strategy advocates that the Bank gradually shift toward
more state-focused interventions to broaden and deepen economic
reforms, accelerate infrastructure development and industrial restructuring, and maximize the multiplier effect of the Bank’s policy dialogue.
Within state-focused operations, the Bank will support social interventions
for urban infrastructure development, improvement of the quality and
cost recovery of social services, and the establishment of sacial safety nets

 

  
 

” Finance®

 

 

 

* Cumulative Bank Lending to Fiji
. (As of 31 December 1995). 70-5.

     

     

 

  

Fiji:
Lending and Disbursements
$ Mitien

20

6 Annual, 1991-1995

 

1991 1992 1993 1986 1995
#4 Lending %% Disbursements

   

Comrhunications

* Tadustr and:
Nonfuel Minerals

 
    
 

 

eiANNUAL REPORT 1995
SR

India:
Lending and Disbursements

§ Million
a

tsp} Annual, 1991-1995

 

1991 joy 1993 1994
Lending £& Disbursements

Cumulative Bank Lending to Indonesia
(As of 31 December 1995)

  
 
  
 

 

12,970.60» 24.5

 

Energy . 2,730.1 22.5 *
‘Transport and . slopes . :
7 Commiinications.. 27: 1,980.9 16.3
1, Finanee 7 940.0 LT
*Ipdstry and Bie aes
Nohfuel Minerals. -.", 12 351.7 29
Multisector “3 . 69.0 0.6
Total. : 206 12,144.6 100.0

TR OD

Ea 100

 

 

 

for workers affected by industrial restructuring programs.

Policy Dialogue: During the year, the major focus of the policy
dialogue was to support the broadening and deepening of
macroeconomic and structural reforms, including al the state level. The
Bank supported improvements in the policy, regulatory and institutional
frameworks for critical infrastructure sectors, including energy and
transport, and discussed the possibilities of developing financing modalities to suil the long-gestation requirements of infrastructure projects. The
Bank also discussed reforms of the financial and capilal markets to
develop effective regulatory sysiems and a long-term debt markel

Loans and Technical Assistance: In 1995, the Bank ajproved
three loans amounting to $630 million for the energy, financial and social
infrastructure sectors. The Bank also approved 14 technical assistance
grants totalling $5.5 million. Of this amount, $1.95 million was for
project preparation.

Project Implementation: Of the 41 loans approved as of end1995, seven had been closed and 34 were under administration,
including five waiting to become effective. Contract awards for the year
totalled $659 million, bringing the cumulative total to $3,008 million.
Total disbursements for the year amounted to $600 million, with cumulative disbursements reaching $2,577 million. As a result of a country
project review mission, the Government held quarterly project review
meetings, standardized bidding documents and released 25% of projected
annual expenditures at the start of the fiscal year to expedite project
implementation. The Government also agreed to establish a task force to
streamline procurement procedures and form a working group to study
issues related to the timely release of funds, direct payment procedure
and imprest accounts. A country seminar on procurement was held.

Indonesia

Operational Strategy: The Bank’s operational strategy in
Indonesia is in line with the Government's development objectives of
efficient, equitable and environmentally sustainable growth. The strategy
aims to raise the country’s international competitiveness and increase
factor productivity by: (i) improving physical infrastructure; (ii) developing
human resources; and (iti) promoting sustainable resource management.
Poverty reduction and improving the status of women are major concerns
in improving factor productivity.

Policy Dialogue: Policy dialogue focused on sectoral issues. In the
agriculture sector, the Bank emphasized: (i) beneficiary management of
irrigation systems; (ii} operation and maintenance of irrigation, flood
control and water supply systems, and greater cost recovery;

(iii) innovative ways to provide financial assistance to farmers; and

{iv) capacity building, particularly in relation to decentralizing project
administration and implementation. In the power subsector, the dialogue
concentrated on restruciuring, establishing an appropriate regulatory
framework, improving pricing policies and phasing out subsidies. Private
sector participation and partnership between the public and private

 

f
i
‘sectors were emphasized. In the urban development and water supply
subsectors, the question of promoting further decentralization was discussed. In the education subsector, issues relating to private sector |
education and better delivery of services. were addressed. |

Loans and Technical Assistance: Nine loans, totalling $1,056
million, were approved during the year, including two from the Bank’s
concessional funds. Two loans were for the agriculture sector
($57 million), two for education ($159 million), two for energy
($555 million), two for urban development ($200 million) and one for
water supply ($85 million). The Bank also approved 20 technical
assistance grants totalling $11 million

 

Project Implementation: Of the 206 loans approved as of end1995, 135 had been closed and 71 were under administration, including
six waiting to become effective. Contract awards during the year totalled
$416 million, bringing the curnulative total to $6,824 million. Total
disbursements for the year amounted to $710 million, with cumulative
disbursements reaching $6,819 million. Project implementation continued to be satisfactory with the Indonesia Resident Mission providing
assistance to the Government and executing agencies. A project portfolio
review was held jointly with the Government in October. This resulted in
a further streamlining of operations and a better understanding of
procurement and disbursement procedures, A project implementation
management serninar was held for executing agency staff to identify ways
to speed up project implementation. .

Kazakhstan

Operational Strategy: The Bank’s interim strategy in Kazakhstan
is aimed at facilitating its transition to a market economy through policy
and institutional reforms. The Bank will also finance the development of
social and physical infrastructure to encourage and attract private invest- |
ment in the productive sectors. Because of the need to support policy
reforms in view of the current fiscal crisis, a large part of the Bank’s
operations in the medium term will involve quick-disbursing program
lending. Cofinancing with other donors will be actively sought to address
difficulties in sourcing local counterpart funds. Work on drafting a new
strategy for the country began during the year. t

 

Policy Dialogue: Discussions were focused on structural reforms to
create competition in the marketplace, the strengthening of the social
safety net and environmental protection. Ongoing discussions in the
agriculture sector were focused on: {} land reform and farm restructuring; (ii) the dismantling of monopolies and privatization of input supply;
Gii) institutional capacity building; (iv) preservation of the environmental :
resource base; and (v) social protection. In the education subsector, i
discussions touched on the structure and administration of the educational '
system; actions to help meet the rapidly changing labor market needs; |

and ways to solve the present financial crisis through rationalization of
expenditure and improved efficiency.

Loans and Technical Assistance: One loan for $100 million was

 

 

Indonesia: . x
Lending and Disbursemenis

$ Million
1,600 
1,200 >

 

Annual, 1991-1995

ia Lending

COUNTRY HIGHLIGHTS

 

 

ga Disbursements

 

 

101ANNUAL REPORT 1995

   

Cumulative Bank Lending to Kiribati
(As of 31 December 1995)

LE

Amount of
No. of Loans

Sector Loans ($million) %
ie
Transport and

Communications 2 2.3 40.9
Energy 2 1.6 32.7
Finance 1 1.0 20.4
ee
Total 5 4.9 100.0

LS

Kiribati:
Lending and Disbursements
$ ea

os Annual, 199}-1995

02 | rm mo
| Ent Lou

 

Lending £2 Disbursements

Republic of Korea:
Disbursements
$ Million

150

i290} Annual, 1991-1995

30
60}
30

   

  
    

e
I

1991 1992 1993 1994 1995

8 Disbursements

 

ee
1991 1992 1993 1994 1995,

 

approved in 1995 lo support the Government's continued reforms in the
agriculture sector. Nine technical assistance granis amounting to
$6 million were also approved.

Project Implementation: All three loans extended to Kazakhstan
since il became a member in 1994 are under implementation. In 1995,
contracls amounting to $82 million were awarded, while disbursements
reached $64 million. Institutional support continued to be provided under
ongoing technical assistance operations lo acquaint government person
nel with the Bank’s procurement and disbursement policies and pracedures. A technical assistance was provided to train the stall of executing
agencies in project implementalion practices.

Kiribati

Operational Strategy: The Bank seeks to promote sustainable
growth and improve the quality of life. To this end, its operations are
focused on: (i) public sector and public enterprise reforms; (li) creation of
a policy environment conducive to the private sector; (iii) development of
skills; and (iv) tackling urbanization, environmental, public health and
sanitation problems.

Policy Dialogue: Macroeconomic management, reform of the
budgetary process, public sector efficiency, and sanitation and public

* health matters were among the key issues discussed.

Loans and Technical Assistance: No loan was made in 1995.A
$100,000 advisory technical assistance grant for marine export development was approved under channel financing from the Government of
Australia, while a $577,000 grant was provided for the preparation ofa
sanitation and public health project.

Project Implementation: Of the five loans approved as of end1995, four had been closed. Contract awards for the year amounted to
$250,000, bringing the cumulative total to $3.8 million. Disbursements
made during the year amounted to $250,000, with cumulative disbursements reaching $3.8 million.

Republic of Korea

Project Implementation: One loan was still under implementation
in 1995. A small contract amounting to $10,000 was awarded. Disbursements during the year amounted to $6.6 million.

Kyrgyz Republic

Operational Strategy: The principal objective of the Bank's
interim strategy is to facilitate the country's transition to a market
economy. To this end, macroeconomic stabilization is emphasized.
Support for policy reforms, institutional strengthening, human development and selective interventions in favor of economic growth and privateCOUNTRY HIGHLIGHTS

   
  
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
   
  
  
   

-sector development are the major elements of the Bank's strategy.
Considering the likely effect of reforms on vulnerable groups, Bank
programs will attempt to resolve social safety net issues. During the year,
a mission was sent to work on a new Bank strategy for the country.

Policy Dialogue: The Bank’s policy dialogue focused on the
agriculture, power, social infrastructure and transport sectors. In agriculture, discussion centered on land reform and farm restructuring; improved use of irrigation wate:; privatization of input supply; institutional
capacity building and restructuring of government agencies; preserving !
the environmental resource base; and providing social protection. In the
power sector, issues raised by the Bank included arrangements for energy
trade with neighboring countries; the rationalization of electricity and
district heating tariffs; and institutional reforms in the Kyrgyz National
Energy Holding Company. In the transport sector, the Bank encouraged
a policy and regulatory environment conducive to a market economy, the
establishment of a road maintenance program and appropriate financing
mechanisms for the development and maintenance of road networks. In
the social infrastructure sector, structural reforms were encouraged to
develop a sustainable education system and to rationalize social services
and employment generation.

 

Loans and Technical Assistance: A $40 million loan was
approved in 1995 to support the Government's continued reforms in the
griculture sector, Seven technical assistance grants amounting to
S6 million were also approved.

Project Implementation: As of end-1995, two loans totalling
$80 million had been approved for the Kyrgyz Republic. Contract awards
1995 arnounted to $28 million, while disbursements reached
34 million. Ongoing technical assistance operations continued to help
acquaint government agencies with the Bank's operational policies and
procedures to improve project implementation.

Lao People’s Democratic Republic

‘ Operational Strategy: Two major macroeconomic considerations
govern the Bank's strategy in Lao PDR: the mobilization of domestic
resources and the expansion of exports. The process of the country's
transition to a market economy will continue to be supported through
. Policy dialogue and institutional reform. Interventions to encourage
Private sector investment, particularly in essential physical infrastructure,
will be undertaken. In recognition of the importance of developing
stronger economic linkages with neighboring countries, sectoral investments will be considered in a wider regional context. Human deveiopment and capacity building will also receive greater attention.

  

Policy Dialogue: The dialogue was focused on sectoral reforms to
manage resources more efficiently and to strengthen capacity building. A
major development was the provision of a technical assistance grant io i
support the proposed separate municipality fer Vientiane. The establish- |
ment of the Nationa! University in Vientiane, the first in Lao PDR, was
the first step in strearlining postsecondary education. The Bank was

 

 

 

103ANNUAL REPORT 1995

 

Lao PDR:
Lending and Disbursements

$ Million
100,

ay | Annual, 1991-1995
60
40

2 Q

      

pl = —
191 gue 19923 1994 1995

Lending tm Disbursements

Cumulative Bank Lending to Malaysia
(As of 31 December 1995)

Henne ee ee  einnEEEEEEEEEEEAn

 

   

Amount of
No. of Loans
_ Sector - Loans ($million)  %:
Social Infrastructure 20 710.6 37.0
Agriculture’ and

Agro-industry 26 566.0 29.5 °
Energy 11 321,5 16.7%
Transport and

Communications 15 255.1 13.3
Industry and , :

Nonfuel Minerals.) © 1 53.0.» 2.8
Finance sl 15.05. 08
tae atagiell ake i I aa
Total : 74° 4,921.2. 100.0
Malaysia:

Lending and Disbursements
$ Million
400

   
  

nual, 1991-1995

1991 1992 1993 1994 1995
) Lending 83 Disbursements

 

104

 

 

involved in discussions leading lo the privatization of road maintenance
companies. The Government also made a commitmeni io use domestic
resources to fund maintenance costs and to promote cost-recovery
measures in the road subsector.

Loans and Technical Assistance: Four loans totalling
$93 million were approved in 1995 in the social infrasiructure and
transport sectors. Thirteen technical assistance grants were also approved
for $6 million, of which four were for project preparation.

Project Implementation: Of the 36 loans approved as of end1995, 19 had been closed and 17 were under administration. During the
year, contracts amounting to $57 million were awarded, bringing the
cumulative total to $339 million. Disbursemenis in 1995 totalled
$58 million and cumulative disbursements amounted to $279.5 million.
Institutional weaknesses and a shortage of skilled personnel were the
major constraints affecting project implementation

Malaysia

Operational Strategy: The Bank's operational strategy for
Malaysia has evolved in step with the country's rapid economic growth.
The thrusts of the strategy are human development, institutional strengthening and capacity building, regional balance, environmental management and subregional cooperation. A revision of the strategy is envisaged
to support the objectives of the proposed Seventh Malaysia Plan (19962000).

Policy Dialogue; The Bank worked closely with the Government in
analyzing export performance, assessing the infrastructure investment
requirements up to the year 2010, and strengthening the institutional
framework for sustainable development. The Bank is also helping
improve the regulatory system for private sector infrastructure and the
effectiveness of the Women’s Affairs Division of the Government.

Loans and Technical Assistance: In 1995, a $72 million loan
was approved to improve the quality of upper secondary technical and
vocational education. Six technical assistance grants totalling $2 million
were also approved.

Project Implementation: Of the 74 loans approved as of end1995, 63 had been closed and 11 were under administration, including
two waiting to become effective. Contract awards for the year amounted
to $67 million, bringing cumulative contract awards to $1,131 million.
Disbursements amounted to $47 million, bringing cumulative disbursement to $1,082 million.

Maldives
Operational Strategy: The operational strategy for Maldives

addresses three key issues: fiscal and financial management, regional
development and protection of the environment. In 1995, the Bank

 

i

|
i
|“COUNTRY HIGHLIGHTS

 

helped the Government prepare a medium-term macroeconomic stabilization program in collaboration with the International Monetary Fund and
the World Bank. A technical assistance grant was provided to the financial sector to review domestic resource mobilizetion and institutional
issues.

Policy Dialogue: Fiscal management and financial sector issues
dominated the Bank’s dialogue with the Government in 1995. The topics
discussed included budgetary deficit, monetary and exchange rate issues,
and domestic resource mobilization. Educational and regional development issues were also discussed, emphasizing the need for equitable
distribution of the benefits of growth.

Loans and Technical Assistance: No Joan was made during the
year. Three technical assistance grants totalling $1.1 million were
approved.

Project Implementation: Of the six loans approved for Maldives
as of end-1995, four had been closed and two were under administration. Contracts worth $5.2 million were awarded during the year,
ringing the cumulative figure to $32 million. Disbursements amounted
to $4.6 million in 1995, with total disbursements reaching $25 million.

Marshall Islands

Operational Strategy: The operational strategy for Marshall
Islands emphasizes donor coordination and policy reform for improved
economic management in preparation for the end of large fund transfers
from the United States by 2001. Lending will be directed toward public
sector reform and private sector development.

Policy Dialogue: Macroeconomic and fiscal management remained a key issue. In view of the projected sharp reduction of external
assistance, matters such as domestic resource mobilization, cost recovery,
investment planning, aid coordination and civil service reform were
discussed. The Bank convened the country’s first aid group meeting to
discuss the Government’s reform plans and broaden external assistance.

Loans and Technical Assistance: A $9.2 million loan was made
in 1995 for a water supply and sanitation project. Four technical assistance grants totalling $3.7 million were also approved. These included a
special grant of $2.5 million to support a policy advisory team to assist
the Government in designing and implementing a policy reform program.

Project Implementation: Of the six loans approved as of end1995, one had deen closed and five were under administration, including
one yet to become effective. Contract awards for the year amounted to
$750,000, bringing cumulative conirac: awards to $6 million. Disbursements amounted to $3 million, bringing the cumulative total to
$5 million. The lack of skilled personnel and institutional weaknesses
affected the work of executing agencies.

: Cumulative Bank Lending to Maidives
AAs of 31 December 1995)

 
 
 

. Amount of
fy No. of (2 Loans’. S
Loans. (S million): '%

 
    
 

 

16.3. 47.8
48,3" 48.2

   

   
      

Maldives:
Lending and Disbursements

Aanual, 1991-1995,

 

  

1993 1994 1995

§3 Disbursements

1991 1952

S LendingANNUAL REPORT 1995

 

 

   

Cumulative Bank Lending to Mongolia
{As of 31 December 1995)

 

Amount of
No. of Loans

Sector Loans ($ million) %
een
Transport and

Communications 4 109.5 43.6
Industry and

Nonfuel Minerals 2 60.0 23.9
Energy 2 43.8 174
Agriculture and

Agro-Industry 2 38.0 15.1
Total 10 251.3 100.0

Mongolia:

Lending and Disbursements
$ Million

100

ga} Annual, 1991-1995

 

1991 1992 1993 1994 1995
Lending £21 Disbursements

 

=

 

Federated States of Micronesia

Operational Strategy: Donor coordination and policy reform for
improved economic management are the cornerstones of the Bank's
sirategy for the Federated States of Micronesia, Institutional development.
te cope with the end of large fund transfers from the United States by
2001, is ernphasized. Lending will be directed toward public sector
reform and private sector development.

Policy Dialogue: The Bank focused ils discussions on
macroeconomic and fiscal management in view of the projected sharp
reduction of external assistance. Issues such as domestic resource mobilization, cost recovery, investment planning, aid coordination and civil
service reform were discussed. The Bank convened the country’s first aid
group meeting io discuss the Government's reform plans and broaden
the base of external assistance.

Loans and Technical Assistance: No loan was made in 1995,
Five technical assistance grants were approved for a total of $4.2 million
These included three for the preparation of new projects and a special
grant of $2.5 million to support a policy advisory team to assist the
Government in designing and implementing a policy reforrn program.

Mongolia

Operational Strategy: Ways to facilitate Mongolia’s transition
from a centrally planned to a market economy are at the core of the
Bank's country strategy, which was completed in 1994. Efforts are
directed toward creating an environment that encourages competition
and efficiency, developing human resources, strengthening institutions
and improving infrastructure.

Policy Dialogue: Policy reforms discussed included measures to
enhance market orientation, increase competition, develop the financial
and agriculture sectors, and reduce poverty, In the financial sector, the
discussions centered on stopping directed lending through the banking
system, dealing with the inherited debt of commercial banks, strengthening the regulatory and supervisory role of the central bank, and improving
commercial banking policies. In the agriculture sector, dialogue centered
on freeing meat and grain prices, sectoral restructuring and efficiency,
and privatization. Employment generation, rural development, human
development, health services, and strengthening the social safety net were
also among the key issues discussed. A staff study assessing the impact of
Mongolia's economic iransformation on the country’s women was
completed in 1995.

Loans and Technical Assistance: Three loans totalling
$84 million were approved in 1995. Two were for transport and communications projects ($49 million) and one for an agriculture sector
prograrn ($35 million). Eleven technical assistance grants, amounting to
$6 million, were also approved, of which three were for the preparation
of new projects.

 

t
:
fh
;

 

 

f
i
$
i:Fie cog da

 

COUNTRY HIGHLIGHTS,

 

Project Implementation: Of the ten loans epproved as of end1995, one had been closed and nine were under administration. During
the year, contract awards and disbursements amounted to $74.5 million
and $50 million, respectively. The respective cumulative figures were
$163 million and $109 million.

Myanmar

Operational Strategy: The Bank continued to monitor economic
developments in Myanmar. An operational strategy will be formulated
when appropriate.

Loans and Technical Assistance: No loan has been provided to
Myanmar since 1986 and no technical assistance since 1987

Project Implementation: All 32 loans approved as of 1986 have
been closed. No contract award or disbursement was made in 1995.

Nauru

Operational Strategy: Nauru joined the Bank in 1991. An
operational strategy is under preparation. The Bank expects to help the
economy sustain livelihoods, following the depletion of its phosphate
resources, by focusing on reforms in public finance and Tanagement of
overseas assets.

Policy Dialogue: Following the classification of Nauru as a Group
B borrower, the Bank has begun discussions with the Government on
several issues, including national economic and financial management.

Loans and Technical Assistance: No loan or technical assistance
has yet been provided.

Nepal

_ Operational Strategy: Poverty reduction through broadbased and
labor-absorbing economic growth and expansion of basic social services is
the Bank’s strategy in Nepal. It supports agriculture, tourism, physical
and social infrastructure, and power projects, and seeks to expand job
opportunities for the poor. Structural reform is supporied to create the
right policy environment for private sector development. The Bank will
also continue to assist in improving and protecting the environment
through human development, poverty reduction and natural resouree
management. The Bank-financed Agricultura! Perspective Plan has
provided strong support for this growth-oriented strategy.

Policy Dialogue: Discussions were focused 6n economic liberalization to increase reliance on market forces and promote the private sector.
To maintain fiscal and macroeconomic stal ), the Government was
encouraged to mobilize domestic resources (among other things, through
lax and customs reforms} and to prepare ‘or the introduction of the value
 

 

, Cumulative Bank ‘Lending to Myanmar

 

(As of 31: December 1995):

 

Myanmar:
Lending and Disbursements 
10 Annual, 1991-1995

 

1992 1992 299%
4% Lending

 

1994 1995
8% DisbursementsNepal:

Lending and Disbursements

   

   
 

SMillon

M0

10 Annual, 1991-1995

100

BP pony

oof fi fame om

cm

40 | jel Fel
Ps tr. i
gle. | i oud.

1991 992 1993 1994 1995

Lending iy Disbursements

    
 

Finaiice ‘

 
  

: AAs of 31 Decejtiber 1995) :

Social Intra suctuiré

Cumulative Bank Lending to Pakistan

 
 
 
  

~ 14.0
413

Transport and" ane ee Gee i
(oss Communications) Ake, 767.0 9.2
_ Industiyahd se
Nontuel Mirierals yo Band 4a
Multisector 2 (144.0 1,7.

a een i

Total

168 © 8,355.4. 100.0

re

 

108

‘313.
284°

 

added tax. The need to prioritize development expenditure for both
ongoing and new projects, and to improve budgeting, release and
reimbursement procedures was emphasized. Improvements in the
institutional, financial and technical viability of power sector institutions
were also discussed in preparation for a hydropower development
program.

Loans and Technical Assistance: !n 1995, the Bank approved a
$40 million loan for the transport sector and an $8 million direct Joan to
the private sector. Six technical assistance grants totalling $3 million were
also approved.

Project Implementation: Of the 81 loans approved as of end1995, 50 had been closed and 31 were under implernentation, including

| one yet to become effective. Contract awards in 1995 totalled

$38 million, bringing the cumulative total to $806 million. Disbursements

| for the year totalled $59 million, with cumulative disbursements standing

at $769.5 millon. Both contract awards and disbursements suffered due
to noncompliance of covenants under the Industrial Sector Program
Loan, poor implementation of projects under the Special Assistance for
Oil Supply and delays in contract approval. The Nepal Resident Mission
helped the Government and executing agencies in administering projects
and carrying out other Bank operations in the country. A technical
assistance to improve the submission of audited financial statements on
projects was implemented.

Pakistan

Operational Strategy: The Bank prepared a new operational
strategy for Pakistan in 1995. Its main emphasis is on human development (including education, health, population welfare), and water supply
and sanitation. The importance of raising the economic status of women
is also accorded high priority. Economic growth continues to be advocated as the second main objective to ensure job opportunities for a
rapidly growing population and to generate the financial resources for
sustained investment in human and physical capital by both the public
and private sectors. Critical infrastructure bottlenecks in the agriculture,
transport and energy sectors are to be acldressed on a priority basis, and
natural resource management remains an important consideration.

Policy Dialogue: In the agriculture sector, beneficiary participation
was encouraged in forestry and irrigation. The introduction of costrecovery mechanisms in operating and maintaining irrigation systems was
pursued, In the energy sector, the focus was on reducing the demandsupply gap through investments in power generation and the upgrading
of transmission and distribution systems. The privatization of the Karachi
Electric Supply Corporation and selected facilities of the Water and
Power Development Authority, and greater private sector participation in
power generation and transmission were also discussed.

Extensive financial sector reforms will be implemented under the
Financial Sector Intermediation Loan.

The Social Action Program formed the basis of the dialogue on
social sectors. Policy dialogue on education focused on helping the

 

i
i
'
i
;
:
4

soneCOUNTRY HIGHLIGHTS

 

federal and provincial governments improve public sector management, Pakistan:

increase recurrent expenditures, and provide guidelines on school site Lending and Disbursements
selection and deployment of teachers. Jn the health, nutrition and popula- Slice
tion sector, efforts were made to enhance the provincial focus of projects 1006

Annual, 1991-1995

and build capacities to improve project design, implementation and 800 F

monitoring. The Bank has actively pursued sectoral reforms in the

transport sector through continuous policy dialogue which focused.on ;

three main policy areas, namely: road maintenance, road sector taxes
!
i

 

and road safety. ‘
199] 1992 1993 1993 : 1995
Loans and Technical Assistance: Eleven loans were approved #@ Lending as Disbursements
during the year, totalling $592 million, for projects in the agriculture,

financial, social infrastructure and transport sectors. Eight technical

assistance grants totalling about $3 million were also approved.

Project Implementation: Of the 168 loans approved as of end1995, 94 had been closed and 74 were under administration, including
nine yet to become effective. Contract awards during the year amounted
to $405 million, bringing the cumulative figure to $5,514 million.
Disbursements for the year totalled $490 million, with cumulative
disbursements reaching $5,350 million. The Pakistan Resident Mission
was strengthened to assist in project preparation and implementation. It
assumed the implementation of 18 projects and held project review
meetings with provincial and federal entities. A country portfolio review
mission and a country programming mission were undertaken to ensure
that cross-sectoral issues affecting project performance were considered
in finalizing the lending program.

 

Papua New Guinea

Operational Strategy: The Bank’s strategic focus in Papua New
Guinea is on employment creation in the nonmineral sector on a sustainable basis. The Bank helps promote the country's intemational competitiveness and a policy environment that encourages private investment to
expand the nonmineral base of the economy. Agriculture, fisheries and
marine resources, health, urban water supply and sewerage, and education remain the key areas of interest. The transport and industry sectors
are also being assisted.

 

; Policy Dialogue: Papua New Guinea experienced a severe
economic crisis in 1994 and remedial measures were introduced late in
that year. In 1995, the Government introduced a stabilization and
economic recovery program to avoid future fiscal imbalances and to shift Papua New Guinea:
public expenditure toward investment. Given the tight fiscal situation in | Lending and Disbursements:
1995, the Bank sought the implementation of ongoing projects instead !
of starting new ones. The question of improving natural resource man- i
agement was addressed.

Two advisory technical assistance grants were approved for a total of
$780,000.

 

:
i

Loans and Technical Assistance: No loan was made in 1995.
s£ Lending 88 Disbursexnents

Project Implementation: Of the 42 loans approved as of end
 

109ANNUAL REPORT 1995 :

  

1995, 30 had been closed and 12 were under administration. Contract
awards for the year amounted to about $10 million, bringing Lhe curnula- a
tive total to $430.5 million. Disbursements totalled $17.6 million lor the |

Cumulative Bank Lending to Philippines
(As of 31 December 1995)

 

Le year, with curnulative disbursernents standing at $412.5 million. A i
i. oe Bepontst country project review mission was undertaken to help the Government i

Sector Loans ($ million) % identify problems affecting project implementation, such as inadequate i
counterpart funds and a shortage of qualified manpower. A reporl was i

Energy 24 1,760.9 30.5 prepared to guide government agencies in irnproving project implemen- '
Agriculture and lation, i
Agro-industry 52 1,422.9 24.7 t
Social Infrastructure 24 904.8 15.7 &
Transport and i
Communications 22 700.8 13.3 Philippines b
Finance 14 595.0 10.3 j
ey d Nonfuel 6 283.7 49 Operational Strategy: The Bank's operalional strategy in the 4
Minavals 4 42.8 08 Philippines is in line with the Bank’s overall strategic framework and is i
it supportive of the Government's priorities and programs under the six- i
Total 146 5,770.9 100.0 year Medium-Term Philippine Development Plan (1993-1998). The i
epee i mei strategy is to encourage growth and employment through greater private

sector involvement in the economy and promote a more open economic
system. Over the longer term, the promotion of growth and employment :
will require more funding and technical support for infrastructure develop:
ment. Both the expansion of capacity and the improvement of the ;
operational efficiency of existing investments, particularly in the power, \
water supply, irrigation and roads subsectors, will be emphasized. The
Bank will also continue to support the management and sustainable |
goo | Annual, 1991-1995 development of the country's natural resources, particularly in forestry I,
and fisheries. Complementing these activities, the Bank's operational
prograrn will be increasingly involved in human development in the
education and health subsectors.

Philippines:
Lending and Disbursements

$ Million
1000

 

oo 1992 1998 1994 1995 Policy Dialogue: Discussions focused on the Government's :
.. Lending © Disbursements continuing efforts to improve public sector management, strengthen the t
planning and administrative capacities of government agencies, decentral- t
ize functions to local governments, and privatize public enterprises. ,
Micropolicy issues in key sectors, and structural and procedural bottle- ‘
necks that contribute to institutional inefficiencies figured in the discus- :
sions. In the agriculture and agro-industry sector, the need to sirengthen
basic rural infrastructure and related support services, particularly credit,
marketing and extension services, was pointed out. In respect of natural
resource management, particularly in the forestry and fisheries sectors,
the importance of community-based approaches was stressed. In the I
power, water supply and transport subsectors, the Bank highlighted the }
need for cost recovery, better project supervision and the privatization of
public sector services. In the health and education subsectors, discussions
were focused on the absorptive capacity of central agencies lo manage b
rapidly expanding external assistance programs and on the impact of the f
Government's decentralization. policies on local institutions.

 

 

Loans and Technical Assistance: Seven loans totalling
$572 million were approved in 1995 for six projects in the agriculture F
($30 million), power ($244 million), financial ($150 million) and social F
infrastructure ($148 million) sectors. The Bank also approved 17
technical assistance grants amounting to $6.1 million.

 

 

110COUNTRY HIGHLIGHTS

 

Project Implementation: Of the 146 loans approved as of end1995, 94 had been closed and 52 were under administration, including
seven waiting to become effective. Contract awards totalled $156 million,
bringing the cumulative total to $3,508 million. Total disbursernents for
the year amounted te $237 million and cumulative disbursements
reached $3,537 million. Following the portfolio performance review
carried out in 1994, a joint project review meeting was held with the
Government in 1995 to continue discussions on policies and procedures
affecting project implementation. Meetings were held with government
authorities and executing agencies to determine realistic project plans and
schedules, and identify remedial measures to remove obstacles causing
delays in project implementation. In addition, a country serninar on
project implementation and administration was held.

Solomon Islands

Operational Strategy: The Bank aims to promote the development of productive industries in Solomon Islands by improving the
business environment. It seeks to ensure that the country’s natural
resources are better managed and a greater share of incomes-from
fisheries and forestry is reteined within the country. A key strategy is to
strengthen the central government agencies’ capacity to formulate \
policies, plari and evaluate projects. |

Policy Dialogue: Fiscal issues and, more generally, ways of
improving financial and economic management were discussed. The
critical situation in the forestry sector and the need to reform policies and
practices were among the other matters raised.

Loans and Technical Assistance: No loan or technicai assistance
was provided in 1995.

Project Implementation: All 13 loans approved es of end-1995
had been closed. No new contract was awarded during the year. The
cumulative total of contract awards amounted to $37 million. Disbursements for the year amounted to $110,000, with cumulative disbursements reaching about $38 million. Project implementation suffered from
a shortage of qualitied personnel, institutional weaknesses and insufficient
local tunds.

Sri Lanka

Operational Strategy: The Bank emphasizes efforts to reduce
unemployment and poverty through higher econornic growth. The
Strategy is aimed at removing obstacles to growth, expanding the poor’s
access to income and job opportunities, and promoting environmental
sustainability.

Policy Dialogue: Discussions centered on ways to increase economic efficiency, enhance private secior participation and improve the
performance of the agriculture sector. Extensive discussions were held in
preparation for the Plantation Reform Project, which aims at privaiizing

  

 

 

 

Cumulative Bank Lending to
Solomon Islands
* {As of 31 December 1995)
Amount of; :
No. of Loans!

Sector Loans". '($ million) (3 °% 0.5

 

Agriculture and
Agro-industry 4
Energy 2
Transport and
Communications 3:
og
1
1

 
 
 
 
 
 
   
 
 
 

Finance’
_ Sociel Infrastructure
3: Multisector” 2

 
 

Total

 

Solomon Islands:
Lending and Disbursements

S$ Maion
3

4 Annual, 1991-1995

no

 

1992
a Lending

1963 1994
¥% Disbursements

1995

 

"Industry anc 1 Af
Nonfuel Minerals

= Total

 

lllANNUAL REPORT 1995

 

Sri Lanka:
Lending and Disbursements

§ Million
300 |

240.
140

Annual, 1991-1995

120
oo

    

1991 1992 1y93. 1994

Lending “2 Disbursements

Cumulative Bank Lending to Thailand
{As of 31 December 1995)

EEE

Amount of
No. of Loans

Sector Loans ($million) %
Energy 26 1,532.3 44.1
Transport and.

Communications - * 16 1,114.5 32.1
Social Infrastructure it 489.4 14.1
Agricutture.and

Agro-industry 10 159.1 46
Finance 6 140.0 4.0,
Industry and

Nonfuel Minerals 1 39.0 11
vere eee ree ree
Total 70 3,474.3. 100.0

Thailand:

Lending and Disbursements
3 Million

600

soo Annval, 1991-1995 _

400 5%
300
200
200

ot SES go
1991 1992 1993 1998 1995,
Lending & Disbursements

 

 

 

plantation companies. Under the Second Power System Expansion
(Sector) Project, the dialogue took up issues related to the tariff structure,
and financial viability and efficiency of power utilities.

Loans and Technical Assistance: Two loans amounting Lo
$140 million were approved in 1995, one in the agriculture sector and
one in energy. Nine technical assistance grants totalling $4 million were
approved, three of which were for project preparation,

Project Implementation: Of the 76 loans approved as of end1995, 51 had been closed and 25 were under administration, including
two yet to become effective. Contract awards during the year amounted
to $118 million, bringing the cumulative total to $1,208 million. Disbursements during the year amounted to $87 million, with cumulative
disbursements reaching $1,128 million. A country project review mission
undertaken during the year noted sieps taken by the Government to
improve the performance of Bank-financed projects. These include:

(i) holding monthly project review meetings chaired by the President;

(ii) submission by line ministries of monthly project performance reports
to the Ministry of Finance; and (iii) presentation of quarterly reports to
the Cabinet by the President for review and follow-up action.

Thailand

Operational Strategy: The Bank's strategy for Thailand is to help
the country improve its long-term competitiveness and achieve a balanced
development of all its regions. Priority is given to efforts to improve
physical infrastructure, develop human resources and ensure an effective
management of the environment and natural resources, Appropriate
measures to mitigate adverse environmental effects of ongoing activities
are encouraged.

Policy Dialogue: Discussions were held on ways to encourage
private sector investments, privatize infrastructure and public utilities,
enhance the efficiency of state enterprises and improve the management
of the environment and natural resources. There was extensive dialogue
on road safety, transport efficiency and environmental improvement in
connection with the processing of the Second Regional Roads (Sector)
Project and the Samut Prakarn Wastewater Management Project. The
discussions also touched on how the institutional framework could be
improved to encourage greater private sector participation in infrastructure projects. The development of a program for industrial pollution
prevention, the transfer of clean technology, mechanisms for cost
recovery, and the monitoring and enforcement of pollution control
regulations were among the other topics discussed.

Loans and Technical Assistance: Two loans totalling
$330 million were approved in 1995, one for the transport and communications sector ($180 million) and one for social infrastructure
($150 million). Twelve technical assistance grants totalling about

$5 million were also approved, five of which were for project preparation.

Project Implementation; Of the 70 loans approved as of end
I:
t
k
t
£COUNTRY HIGHLIGHTS

 

1995, 55 had been closed and 15 were under administration. Contracts
amounting to $85.5 million were awarded during the year, bringing the
cumuiative value of contract awards to $2,073 million. Disbursements
totalled $162 million, with curnuiative disbursements reaching $2,009
million.

Tonga

Operational Strategy: Bank operations in Tonga are aimed at
achieving economic growth, institutional strengthening, private sector
development and greater public sector efficiency. To attain these abjectives, support is given for efforis to improve economic and financial
management systems; upgrade the transport infrastructure, power supply
and agricultural extension services; and enhance the privaie sector’s role
in development.

Policy Dialogue: Advisory technical assistance to strengthen
financial and economic management wes the focus for policy dialogue in
1995. Issues related to agriculture, transport (ports and roads) and
human development were also addressed.

Loans and Technical Assistance: A $3.6 million loan was
approved for the agriculture sector, together with two advisory technical
assistance grants amounting to $1.5 million.

Project Implementation: Of the 13 loans approved as of end1995, seven had been closed and six were under administration. Con
tract awards during the year totalled $6.5 million, bringing the cumulative
total to $30 million, Disbursements for the year iotalled $5.5 million, with
the cumulative total reaching $26 million. Project implementation
continued to suffer from shortage of qualified personnel and inadequate
institutional capacity.

Tuvalu

Operational Strategy: The operational strategy for Tuvalu is to
promote sustainable institution building, export promotion, infrastructure
development and active private sector participation in development.

Policy Dialogue: Discussions centered on public sector efficiency,
fisheries development, international and domestic transport, and resource
mobilization. .

Loans and Technical Assistance: No loan was made in 1995.
Two advisory technical assistance grants amounting to $410,000 were
approved

Vanuatu

Operational Strategy: In support of the Government’s goals, the
Bank’s strategy is focused or. promoting human development and

 

 

Cumulative Bank Lending to Tonga: :
{As of 31 December 1995) 
  
  

Tonga:
Lending and Disbursements

SMillior,
Wr

g- Annual, 1991-1995

ioe.

oN NR a

 

1995
i Disbursements

1993 1994

ity Lending

 

   

Mult :
“: Agriculture and © a
Bs Agro-t dustry. 
     

     

 

: : °49.3°'100.0; =

 

 

 

113ANNUAL REPORT 1995

 

Vanuatu:
Lending and Disbursemenis
$ Milton
12
1g| Annual, 1991-1995
&
6
4
2 {

i sen som t

1992 i992 1993 1994 1995

   

 

Lending Fs Disbursements

Cumulative Bank Lending to Viet Nam
{As of 31 December 1995)

a LT ES

  

Amount of
‘ No. of Loans
_ Sector | Loans (S$ million) %
Agricullure and: ++
“Agro-iridistiy) ‘9 294.0 43.3
~ Transport and : ;
Corhrriunications - 4 156.2 23.0
Social Infrastructure. , 4 135.6 20.0
Enetgy | 2 86.2. 12:7"
Finance 1 7.0 1.0
see le ate Et
‘Total ‘ 20 679.0 100.0

Viet Nam:
Lending and Disbursements
$ Million

Annual, 1991-1995 3:

   

 

1991 1992 1993 1994
»? Lending Si Disbursements

 

 

improving the quality of life. This is sought to be achieved by upgrading
water supply and sanitation facilities, and controlling pollution in the
lagoons of Port Vila and Luganville. Balanced regional development,
mainly through the development of the outer islands, is also part of the
effort. The Bank remains committed to support productive activities, and
promote private seclor development and public sector efficiency.

Policy Dialogue: Through iis technical assistance, Ihe Bank
encouraged policy reforms that would help strengthen macroeconomic
policy analysis, protect the environment, undertake privatization and set
up a ports authority.

Loans and Technical Assistance: No loan or technical assistance
was provided in 1995.

Project Implementation: Of the six loans provided as of end1995, four had been closed and two were under administration. Contract
awards in 1995 totalled $1 million, bringing cumulative contract awards
to over $16 million. Disbursements for the year amounted to $1 million,
with cumulative disbursements totalling about $17 million. Project
implernentation suffered from a lack of qualified personnel, institutional
weaknesses and difficulties in land acquisition.

Viet Nam

Operational Strategy: The Bank's overall strategic objective in
Viet Nam is to promote efficient economic growth, poverty reduction and
sustainable development. It takes into account the particular needs of an
economy in transition from a centrally planned to a market-oriented
system. The Bank’s operational strategy in Viet Nam is designed to
facilitate the transition and restructuring of the economy, according to
market-based principles, while promoting balanced and sustainable
development. The Bank's support to Viet Nam in the medium term
addresses critical constraints in the following areas: (i) policy reform and
institutional development; (ii) infrastructure development; (iii) rural
development; (iv) human development; and (v) environmental and natural
resource management.

Policy Dialogue: A vital component of the Bank’s operations in
Viet Nam is support for policy and structural reforms to improve public
sector efficiency and to encourage the development of the private sector.
The Bank's first policy-based loan, to support the Government's proposed Agriculture Sector Program, was approved in 1994, Other policybased loans, in the financial and industrial sectors, are included in the
medium-term program. In addition to program lending, policy dialogue is
an important feature in all of the Bank’s proposed loan projects. The
dialogue includes support for increased efficiency through tariff reform,
and other measures to increase cost recovery and strengthen financial
management, policy analysis, and planning within state-owned utilities.
Policy dialogue also plays an important role in improving natural resource
management and environmental protection.

Loans and Technical Assistance: The Bank approved four loans

 

 

i

HhCOUNTRY HIGHLIGHTS

 

totalling $233 million for the agriculture, energy, social infrastructure and
transport sectors. Fifteen technical assistance grants totalling $11.6
million were also approved, five of which were for project preparation.

Project Implementation: Of the 20 loans approved as of end1995, 11 had been closed and nine were under administration. Contract
awards in 1995 amounted to $136 million, bringing the cumulative
figure to $164 million. Disbursements amounted to $48 million, with
cumulative disbursements reaching $77 miliion. Sill in the process of
transition to a market-based economy, Viet Narn is experiencing institu
tional, financial anc human constraints in project implementation. A Bank
technical assistance grant is supporting the institutional strengthening of
the National Office for Procurement Evaluation. Draft procurement
reguiation and implementing rules have been prepared for review by the
Government.

Western Samoa

Operational Strategy: The Bank aims to assist Western Samoa in
effecting structural changes in the productive sectors of the economy. It
supports efforts to promote the private sector, improve basic infrastructure, strengthen institutiona! capabilities and develop skills.

Policy Dialogue: Policy reforms and institutional changes to
stimulate and sustain economic growth were among the issues discussed.
The need to ensure a financially sustainable level of investment, given the
country’s low absorptive capacity, and to adopt a private sector-led
economic strategy was stressed. Private sector participation was particularly encouraged in agriculiure, forestry, fisheries and tourism.

Loans and Technical Assistance; No loan was made in 1995
Four technical assistance grants totalling $1.3 million were approved, two
of which were for project preparation.

Project Implementation: Of the 25 loans approved as of end1995, 24 had been closed and one was under administration. Contract
awards during the year totalled $510,000, bringing the cumulative
arnount to $85 million. Disbursements for the year totalled $5 million,
with cumulative disbursements reaching $84 million.

 

Cumulative Bank Lending to
Western Samoa .
(As of 31 Decémber 1995)

    
 

   

    

Yoo: Aimnount of
No. of Loans
Loans.

   
   
 
   
 
 
 

 

- Sector

 

Agriculture and
Agro-industig
Finance :
Energy :
Transport and.
2s Communicatic
Multisector:

  

Western Samoa:
Lending and Disbursements

S$ Million
2c

 

1992
fx Lending

1994
és. Disbursements

2995Ordinary Capital

Resources and

Financial Management

Fourth General Capital Increase

Recon No. 232, authorizing the fourth generai capital
increase (GCI IV), was adopted by the Board of Governors in May 1994.
The increase, which became effective on the date on which the resolution
was adopted, consists of an additional 1,770,497 shares in the Bank’s
authorized capital stock, and amounts to $26,318 million (SDR 17,705
million). The final date for subscribing to GCI IV specified in the resolution was 31 December 1995 or such iater date as the Board of Directors
might determine. By the end of 1995, 28 members had subscribed to the
additional shares to which they were entitled and 28 had yet to do so.)

Capitalization

As of 31 December 1995, the Bank’s authorized capital stock
amounted to $51,893.3 million (SDR 34,909.9 million). During the
year, Uzbekistan’s membership subscription became effective, while 24
members subscribed to their GCI IV entitlements in an aggregate amount
of $12,199.1 million (SDR 8,206.6 milion). As of 31 December 1995,
the subscribed capital stock stood at $43,077.8 million (SDR 28,979.6
million).

Review of Income Outlook

Based on a review of the Bank’s income outlook and allocation of
the 1994 net income, the Board decided in March 1995 that the lending
spread of 40 basis points and the commitment charge of 0.75% per
annum for the Bank's variadle-rate loans be maintained at their current
levels. The Board also decided to recommend to the Board of Governors
that the 1994 OCR net income of $513.106 million, after appropriation
of guarantee fees to the Special Reserve, be allocated as follows:
$362.106 million to the Ordinary Reserve, $70 million to surplus and
$81 million to TASF. The allocation of net income was approved by the
Board of Governors in May 1995 with the adoption of Resolution
No. 238.

 

  

1 In February 1996, the Beard of Directors. acting under the a--thority r. in Resolutior. No. 232 of the
Board of Governors. extended the final date for subscriztion <0 GCI IV by six months to 30 June 1996.

nine loans totalling $604.6 million, the Bank has piayed an important role in the

veiopment of roads and highways in Thailand.

 

1

Subloans provided
through the Industrial

Credit and Investment

Corporation of india
have helped
smail-scale entities

in the private sector
strengthen
manoagerneni sustems.

 

117ANNUAL REPORT 1995

 

LENDING RATES”
(% per annum}

LTTE

1994 1995
—_—_—
1 January 6.26 6.11 (Multicurrency)
6.67 6.90 (US dollar)
1 July 6.21 6.05 {Multicurrency)
(US dollar}

668 - 691

CCNA AR,

* Lending rates.are seton’ 1 January and 1 July every year and are
valid for six-month periods, Sas

 

118

 

Financial Ratios

The Bank considers the interesl caverage ratio (ICR) anc the
reserves:loans ratio {(RLR) as its decisive financial indicators. The ICR,
which is the ratio of nel income (before deducting interest on borrowings)
io interes! on borrowings, measures the Bank's capacity to meet interest
obligations on iis debts out of earnings. The RLR, which is the ratio of
reserves to disbursed and outstanding loans, measures the Bank's
capacily lo protect itself against capital impairment due to possible loan
losses. At the end of 1995, the ICR and RLR were 1.7 times and 35.2%,
compared with 1.6 times and 33.4% at the end of 1994

Lending Rates

The pool-based variable lending rates for the Bank’s multicurrency
and US dollar loan facilities are adjusted on 1 January and 1 July each
year. For each facility, the lending rate is determined by adding a spread
{currently 0.40% per annum) to the preceding six months’ average cost
of the respective pool of outstanding Bank borrowings established to fund
such Joans. For the first and second semesters of 1995, the Bank's poolbased variable lending rates were 6.11% per annum and 6.05% per
annum, respectively, for multicurrency loans, and 6,90% per annum and
6.91% per annum, respectively, for US dollar loans. The corresponding
lending rates for the preceding year were 6.26% per annum and
6.21% per annum, respectively, for multicurrency loans, and 6.67% per
annum and 6.68% per annum, respectively, for US dollar loans. For the
first half of 1996, the applicable lending rates, which are effective from
1 January 1996, are 5.97% per annum for multicurrency loans and
6.89% per annum for US dollar loans.

Under the Bank’s new single-currency market-based loan facility,
lending rates are determined on the basis of the six-month London interbank offered rate (LIBOR) plus a lending spread. For financial intermediaries in the public sector, the spread is the sane as that which applies to
the pool-based variable-rate loans (currently 0.40%), while for private
sector borrowers, the spread is determined on a case-to-case basis. At the
option of the borrowers, the lending rate under this facility may be either
floating or fixed at disbursement.

Currency Composition of Loans

In 1995, the major currencies of Joan disbursement were yen
(53.5%), Swiss franc (0.1%) and US dollar (46.4%). The concentration in
yen and Swiss francs was in line with the Bank’s practice of borrowing
and disbursing in low-coupon currencies to keep the lending rate low.
Disbursements in US dollars were principally for loans under the US
dollar lending facility.

Status of Loans

Altogether, 37 OCR loans were approved in 1995. About 69.3% of
curnulative loan approvals were made to four countries, viz., People’sORDINARY CAPITAL RE!

 

URCES AND FINANCIAL MANAGEMENT

 

Republic of China, India, Indonesia and Philippines.

At the end of 1995, eight private sector loans were in arrears. Of
these, four loans with an aggregate outstanding disbursed balance of
about $36.6 million were in nonacerual status.

Loan Disbursements and Repayments

OCR loan disbursements in 1995 totalled $2,442.1 million, a
decrease of 2.37% from 1994. Principal repayments for the year were
$1,295.5 million, of which $330.3 million represented prepayment on
joans. On 31 December 1995, cumulative loans outstanding after
allowance for possible losses amounted to $17,491.6 million.

Borrowings

The major objectives of the Bank’s borrowing and liability management strategy are to ensure the availability of long-term funds for lending
operations, to fund the liquidity porifolio and to minimize the cost of
borrowing for the Bank and its borrowing member countries. To achieve
these objectives, the Bank seeks to:

(i) maintain a borrowing presence in the major capital markets
and, where possible, increase the size of its public bond issues to provide
“benchmark issues” that increase liquidity in the secondary markets,
broaden the distribution of its bonds and favorably align its funding end
trading spreads with those of other supranational borrowers;

(ii) emphasize borrowings in the longer-maturity range (to the
extent that the related borrowing costs remain attractive) to minimize
fluctuations in its lending rates and to ensure a reasonable maturity
relationship between borrowings and loans;

(ii) expand its investor base by borrowing in the private placement
markets of various currencies;

(iv) tap new markets, especially where this will help develop capital
markets in the Asian and Pacific region;

(v) utilize swap markets where cost-efficient arbitrage can significantly lower the cost of target currencies and transform structured
financing into “plain vanilla” fixed-rate liabilities: and

(vi) use short-term bridge financing should temporary deficiencies in
disbursement or debt-service currencies arise and if market conditions are
not attractive for bond issues with longer maturities.

During 1995, the Bank raised funds totalling $1,714.6 million (see
table). The amount consisted of $1,659.5 million in fixed-rate borrowings
and $55.1 million iri a floating-rate borrowing. After currency and
interest rate swaps, the year’s borrowings (except for the New Taiwan
dollar borrowing which was swapped into a US dollar floating-rate liability
to fund loans under the market-based loan window) were fixed-rate
liabilities denominated in US dollars and Japanese yen. The average
maturity of the borrowings undertaken in 1995 was 9.9 years, compared
to 10.4 years in 1994. The after-swap cost of the fixed-rate liabilities was
4.32%, compared to 5.47% in 1994.

The highlight of the 1995 borrowing program was the Bank's
second $750 million ten-year global bond issue launched in October. The
issue was priced ‘lat to the secondary market spread of the comparable

 

 

Borrowings: 1986-1995

   

$ Millio
26,000) "
Outstanding Debt
[ ee at End of Year
14,090;-E882 Annual Borrowings
12,000-a

 

BORROWINGS, 1995
(Amounts in millions)

AE

Country Type
Global Public
Offering
Eurobond Market Private
Placement
Private
Placement
Public
Offering
Japan Public
Offering
Korea, Rep. of Public
Offering
Taipei,China Public
Offering
Total

 

Currency of uss
Borrowing Borrowing Equivalent”
6.25% 10-Year Bonds due 2005 $ 750 750.0
8-Year Structured
Bonds due 2003 ¥ 5,000 55.1
4.40% 15-Year
Bonds due 2010" ¥ 10,000 120.2
3.125% 10-Year #
Bonds due 2005 ¥ 40,000 472.8
4.60% 10-Year
Bonds due 2005° ¥ 10,000 1114.9.
12.15% 7-Year
Bonds due 2002 W_ 80,000 105.2
6.28% 7-Year
Bonds due 2002 NT$ 2,600 99,3

lt
1,714.64

a At the Bank's exchange rates effective at the time the terms of the borrowing were determined by the President.
b A dual currency bond Issue — principal is payable in yen while the interest is payable in Deutsche Marks,
¢ A dual currency bond Issue - principal is payable in yen while the interest is payable in Australlan dollars.

d_ Total does not tally due to rounding.

 

World Bank ten-year benchmark global bond issue, Of the total issue
amount, $200 million was swapped into a Japanese yen fixed-rate
liability. /

The NT$2.6 billion and W80 billion public bond issues, !aunched in
July and August, respectively, in the domestic capital markets of
Taipei,China and Republic of Korea, underscored the Bank's continuing
commitment in the development of the capital markets in the Asian and
Pacific region. The New Taiwan dollar bond issue was swapped into a US
dollar floating-rate liability while the Korean Won bond issue was
swapped into a fixed-rate Japanese yen liability.

With a view to expanding the investor base, the Bank entered into
three Japanese yen private placements for a total amount of ¥25 billion.
This includes the dual-currency Japanese yen/Australian dollar public
bond issue since the pricing, syndication and distribution of these bonds
were largely done on a private placement basis. With a weighted average
after-swap all-in cost level equivalent to approximately US dollar LIBOR
minus 23 basis points, these transactions exemplified the relative cost
efficiency that is achievable when reaching targeted investors with
structured investment instruments. In June, the Bank launched a tightly
priced ¥40 billion ten-year Euroyen public bond issue, marking its
successful return to the Euroyen bond market for the first time since
1993.

In early 1995, the Board approved an expansion of the Bank’s
Euro-commercial paper (ECP) program from $500 million to $1 billion.
Under the expanded program, the Bank undertook a total of $748
million of ECP bridge-financing to counteract temporary deficiencies in

  

 

|
'

 

|
|
|
|ORDINARY CAPITAL RESOURCES AND FINANCIAL MANAGEMENT

See ee

disbursement and debt-service currencies. This was in addition to its
1995 longer-daied borrowings.

During 1995, the Bank calied its 6.25% Swiss franc bonds of 1985/
2005 with an outstanding principal amount of SwF 88 million.

As of 31 December 1995, the Bank's outstanding borrowings
amounted to $14,636.5 million, with en average maturity of 6.51 years
and an average after-swap cost of 5.959%.

Liquid Asset Investments

 

s of 31 December 1995, the Bank’s liquid assets. consisting of investment holdings (net of special reserve investments) and unrestricted
cash, totalled $5,911.7 million, or approximately 42.5% of undisbursed
loan balances. Year-end levels of liquid assets are maintained at no less
than 40% of undisbursed balances of both e“fective and not-yet-effective
loans. This helps to ersure the uninterrupted availability of funds for the
Bank's operations and adds to flexibility in borrowing activities. especially
when borrowings may be temporarily affected by adverse conditions in
the capita! markets.

The Bank invests its liquid assets with the primary objective of
ensuring the security and liquidity of funds invested. Subject to this
objective being met, the Bank seeks to maximize incorne on its investments. It actively manages its liquid asset portfolio within the credit and
market risk parameters outlined under the Investment Authority approved
oy the Board. Under this authority, the Bank is permitted, among other
things, to invest in the obligations of government and governmentguaranteed entities, engage in securities lending and borrowing, enter
into ‘short’ securities positions, execute transactions in exchange-traded
financial futures and options, and engage in covered forward investments.
The Bank may not assure foreign exchange risk in its investment
portfolio.

The investment portfolio generates a substantial portion of the
Bank’s income. To enhance risk management control over the Bank's
investment activities, organizational changes were made during 1995
which would ensure complete segregation of investment activities from
the investment settlement function.

As a consequence of the improved prospects for fixed-income
securities in 1995, ihe Bank extended the market risk exposure of its
liquid asset portfolio from the defensive levels heid during 1994, Holdings
of securities increased fromm approximately 32% of the portfolio at the
end of 1994 to 41% at the end of 1995, At the same time, holdings of
shori-dated time deposits and other banking instruments declined from
68% of the portfolio to 59%. The duration of the portfolio increased to
13 months at the end of 1995 from five months at the end of 1994.

As of 31 December 1995, the Bank's OCR investmerts totalled
$6,069 million equivalent, compared to $5,645 million equivalent a year
ago. The investment portfolio was denominated in 23 currencies. The
realized rate of return on OCR investments in 1995 was 6.9% compared
with 4.9% in 1994. The increase was attributed to favorable conditions
prevailing in international fixed-income markets during the year.

      

  

  

 

 

 

 

The Banik is

assisting in the
environmenta! improvement
of Qingdao City in

Shandong province of

the Peopie's Republic

of China.

 

121ANNUAL REPORT 1995

 

 

 

INCOME AND EXPENSES ~ ORDINARY CAPITAL RESOURCES
{Amounts in $ million)

(aR

Actual

 

Income and Expenses 1991 1992 1993, 1994 1995

 

1,213.3 1,345.2 1,510.0 1,525.3 1,745.3

1. Total Income

a, From Loans 825.5 943.4 1,075.8 1,187.5 1,312.8
b, From Invesiments 374.8 392.1 410.0 296.1 418.7
c. Frorn Other Sources 13.0 97 24.2 41.7 13.8

2. Less: Expenses
a. Interest and ather

Financlal Expenses 609.8 729.0 831.8 878.4 962.6

b. Administrative Expenses* 83.1 81.0 88.9 110.7 108.3

¢. Provision for Losses - 0.6 19.5 22.7 14.0

d. Services to Member Countries 2.5 - = eee

Total Expenses 695.3 810.6 940.2 1,011.8 1,084.9
—_—

3. Net Income” 518.0 5346 5698 513.5 660.4

TL
Note: Figures may not add due to rounding.

a Net of Administration Charge allocated to Asian Development Fund.
b Before appropriation of guarantee fees to Special Reserve.

1994.

 

 

 

Income and Expenses

Gross income increased by 14%:
from $1,525 million in 1994 to
$1,745.3 million, despile an 11%
growth in the Bank’s average operating
asseis. The marginal increase in gross
income was due mainly 1o an increase in
the realized rate of return on the
investment portfolio, Of the lotal gross
income, $1,313 million was generated
by the loan portfolio and $418 million
by the investment portfolio. Miscellaneous income amounted io $14 million

The average yield on the loan
portfolio declined to 7.1% from 7.7% in
1994, due mainly to the increasing
share of lower-yielding variable-rate
loans in the portfolio. The share of such
loans increased from 69.2% in 1994 to
74.3% in 1995. The yield on the
investment portfolio increased lo 6.9%,
from 4.9% in 1994, due to higher
interest rates in the major investment
currencies. The overall return on
average operating assets achieved for
the year was 2.8%, compared with
2.4% in 1994,

Total operating expenses amounted
to $1,085 million, up $73 million, or
7.2% from the previous year. The rise

in expenses was due to an $34 million increase in financial expenses, a
$2 million decrease in administrative expenses and a $9 million decrease
in the provision for losses. Total operating expenses accounted for
62.2% of the gross income, compared with 66.4% in 1994.

Nef income for the year, before appropriation of guarantee fees to
Special Reserve, amounted to $660.4 million, a 28.6% increase from the
previous year. This compared with a 9.9% decrease in net income inSpecial Funds:
Asian Development Fund,
‘Technical Assistance Special Fund &

Japan Special Fund

Asian Development Fund

ADF and TASF Replenishment (ADF VI)

I HE CURRENT replenishment of the Asian Development Fund
(ADF) and the Technical Assistance Special Fund (TASF), known as
. ADF VI was authorized by Resolution No. 214 of the Board of
Governors in February 1992. It was intended to finance the Bank's
concessional lending operations during the four years from 1992 to
1995. The replerishment total, based on the exchange rates specified in
the resolution (the average of daily exchange rates during the first quarter
of 1991), was $4.2 billion. Of this amount, $140 million was for

 

allocation to TASF, primarily for project-related technical assistance to Donors' meeting

poorer developing member countries (DMCs).and for regional technical in Amsterdam

assistance. on initial .
As of 31 December 1995, instruments of contribution to ADF VI BrepargHons Jar

the next
repienishment of

the Asian Development
| Fund (ADF Vit).

had been deposited by all intending donors except Italy. The
contributions of Canada and United States contained qualifications, as
permitted by the yesolution, that payments of all installments except the
first were subject to subsequent budgetary appropriations.

The resolution envisaged that contributions to ADF VI would
becorne available to the Bank for operational commitments in four
equal ‘ranches during the years 1992-1995. It was expected that the
third and fourth tranches of the unqualified contributions would become
available as from 1 January 1994 and 1 January 1995, respectively.
By the end of 1994, the United States had made available its first :
tranche and 42.93% of its second tranche. Accordingly, ten of the |
other donors (Austria, Belgium, Canada, France, Germany, Nauru,
Spain, Switzerland, Turkey and United Kingdom) had exercised their
right, pending the availability of a further amount of the United States’
contribution, to reduce the amount of their third tranches and not to
make their fourth tranches available as from 1 January 1995. The fourth
tranches of the remaining 11 donors (Australia, Denmark, Finland,

Hong Kong, Japan, Republic of Korea, Netherlands, New Zealand,
Norway, Sweden and Taipei,China) became availabie for operational
commitments as from 1 January 1995, as envisaged in the resolution.
With the United States unable to release any further amounts of its

 

 

123 cSANNUAL REPORT 1995

ADF COMMITMENT AUTHORITY
{at end of period; $ million)

 

 

1994 1995
ADF Lending Limitation 7,877 7,055
Total ADF Commitment Authority 2,099 1,400

Lending Headroom 1,887 1,400
Advance Commitment Authority B12 
tL A

 

 

 

 

contribution during 1995, the amounts released by other donors
remained unchanged ai the end of the year.!

ADF Commitment Authority

At the end of 1994, toial ADF commitment authority, i.e., the
maximum amounl of ADF lending which the Bank could undertake with
availabie resources, was about $2,099 million. The ADF VI fourth
tranches which became available for uperational commitineuils as from
1 January 1995 added about $673 million to ADF resources {al the
exchange raies applicable at the time of release}.

At the end of 1995, the ADF lending limitation, which represents a
certain proportion (referred to as the gearing ratio) of undisbursed
resources, was about $7,655 million. With commitled but undisbursed
loans amounting to $6,256 million, the ADF commitment authority at
the end of 1995 stood at $1,400 million.

Future Resource Requirements

As an initial step to starting negotiations on a further ADF replenishment (ADF Vil) to support the Bank's medium-term concessional lending
program, an informal consultation with ADF donors on the status of ADF
operations and resources was held on 2 May 1995 in Auckland. This was
followed by a meeting of current and potential donors in Amsterdam on
13-14 November 1995 to initiate discussions on the scope, issues and
timetable of the ADF VII negotiations. Donors agreed that negotiations
should continue and that the next meeting should be held on 26-27
February 1996 in Bonn. Donors also agreed to provisionally schedule a
third meeting in Manila at the end of April, immediately preceding the
29th Annua! Meeting of the Bank's Board of Governors.

During 1995, as part of its effort to mobilize donor support for ADF,
the Bank undertook a series of consultations with non-borrowing DMCs
and several higher-income borrowing DMCs to encourage them to
strengthen and broaden support for ADF from the region.

ADF Lean Disbursements and Repayments

ADF disbursements during 1995 decreased by 3.5% to $1,145
million from $1,186 million in 1994. At the end of the year, cumulative
disbursements from ADF resources reached $10,747 million, Loan
repayments for the year amounted to $122.5 million and cumulative
repayments came to $763.9 million. During 1995, three ADF loans
were fully repaid and 37 new ADF loans were approved by the Board.

 

1 On 12 February 1996, legislation was signed into law enabling the Uniled States to pay a further
$100 million of its ADF VI coniribution in early 1996, representing the balance (57.07%) of the United
States’ second branche and 1.75% of its third tranche. The availabilty of this emount would release
ebout $179 milion of the amounts previously withheld by the ten donors which had not released their”
third and fourth tranches in full pending the avallabillty of a further amounl of the United States”
contribution. The $179 million represents the balance (57.07%) of the third tranches of those ten
donors.SPECIAL FUNDS.

 

ADF Revenue and Expenses

In 1995, the excess of ADF revenue over expenses (net income) was
$78 million, bringing the accumulated surplus to $948 million at the end
of the year.

Gross revenue, consisting mainly of revenue from ADF investments
and service fees on ADF loans, amounted to $162 million. Expenses,
consisting mainly of administration charge payable to ordinary capital
resources, were $83 million.

Portfolio Position

The ADF investment portfolio at the end of 1995 amounted to
$418 million, compared with $614 million at the end of 1994. Of the
portfolio, 17% was held in securities issued or guaranteed by governments of member countries. The remaining part was invested in deposits
and other bank instruments in member countries. The retum on ADF
investments over the year was 5.7%, compared with 4.4% in 1994.

The portfolio was denominated in 18 currencies. Japanese yen and
US dollars forrned 46% of the portfolio.

Cumulative ADF loans grew by 7% to $18,563 million {at current
exchange rates). The biggest borrowers were Bangladesh, Pakistan and
Sri Lanka, Loans to Afghanistan have been in nonaccrual status since the
beginning of 1993. Total outstanding loans to the country amounted to
$33 million, about 0.27% of the total ADF loan outstanding.

 

Technical Assistance Special Fund

The TASF portion of ADF VI contributions received by the Bank as
of 31 December 1995 amounted to $146.4 million (equivalent to
$134.6 million at the exchange rates specified in Governors’ Resolution
No. 214).

In May 1995, the Board of Governors allocated $81 million to TASF
from the 1994 net income of ordinary capital resources (OCR). During

» the year, Pakistan made a direct voluntary contribution of $72,000

equivalent. The contribution (Pakistan’s 19th) was partly untied, available
for use in financing costs of services and facilities procured from all
DMCs.

As of end-1995, total TASF resources amounted to $623.1 million,
composed of allocations from ADF V and ADF VI contributions ($237.1

_ million), allocations from OCR net income ($261 million), direct voluntary

contributions to TASF ($85.7 million), income from investments and
other sources {$40.6 million) and transfers out of TASF to ADF

($1.3 million). Of the total TASF resources, $443 miltion had been
utllized/committed, leaving an uncommitted balance of $180.1 million.

Operations and Resource Position

The TASF contributed 39% of funding for services to member
countries, with 146 effective technical assistance projects during the year.
Revenue from investments increased from $2.2 million in 1994 to
$7.9 million, due mainly to an increase in the yield on TASF investments
from 2.7% in 1994 to 4.1%, additional resources available from the

 

 

 

 

irect Voluntary Contribistions ;
“ore from Investinént and::

Other Sources °

vansiérs out-of. TASF to ADF : :Young beneficiaries
of the Second
Bandung Urban
Development
Project

in Indonesia.

 

 

allocation from OCR income and the second regularized TASF replenishment. Total revenue and contributions amounted to. $89 million
Against ihe TASF undisbursed balance of $180 million, ihere were
outstanding commitments of $101 million.

The $81 million cash contribution received in 1995 more than fully
funded the $48 million TASF expenditure. The balance was used to
increase the investment portfolio.

At the end of the year, TASF investments stood at $264 million,
Other assets, comprising dues fiom banks, accounts receivable from
ADF and contributors, advances to consultants and others, {otalled
$18 million.

Japan Special Fund ,

During 1995, the Government of Japan provided a total amount of
¥10.68 billion {equivalent to about $105 million) for its eighth year
contribution to the Japan Special Fund (JSF). The amount included
¥8.1 billion in regular contributions and ¥2.58 billion in supplementary
contributions. This brought Japan's cumulative commitments to JSF
since its inception of the fund on 10 March 1988 to ¥63.8 billion
(equivalent to about $608.59 million, including translation adjustments).

The cumulative total included regular contributions amounting to
¥53.6 billion (equivalent to approximately $508.44 million) and supplementary contributions of ¥10.2 billion (about $100.15 million). The
supplementary contributions were to be used for environment-related
activities (¥6.2 billion), activities to promote the private sector
(¥2.49 billion), women-in-development activities (¥1.25 billion), and for
organizing symposia/training (¥0.26 billion).

Of the total contributions received, $249.34 million had been
utilized as of 31 December 1995, including $247.24 million for technical assistance and $2.1 million for equity investments. Undisbursed funds
are invested. In 1995, income from such investments amounted to
$6.4 million, down by 12.9% as a result of a decline in interest rates. As
agreed with the Japanese Government, part of the investment income
was used to defray the Bank's direct and identified administrative
expenses.

Operations and Resource Position

The revenue from investments of JSF resources decreased by 13%
during the year. The realized rate of return on investment declined from
2.2% in 1994 to 1.5%. Total expenditure amounted to $75 million (up
37%) for services to member countries and $1 million {up 11%} in
administrative expenses.

With additional contributions committed during the year, there was
an operational surplus, which raised JSF net assets to $359 million.

The cash flow position remained satisfactory. The $7 million
received on account of interest earned on investments provided the
major source of funds.

At year-end, the quantum of JSF investments stood at $450 million,
up 11%. Other assets, comprising advances to consultants and others,
decreased by 61% to $4 million, while accounts payable (mainly for
consulting services) stood at $11 million.

 

 

1
tProject and Program
Administration

A TOTAL of 461 loan projects were under administration as of
end-1995. These included 408 projects in the public sector and

53 projects in the private sector, Of the total public sector projects, 389
were performing satisfactorily (oy conforming to target dates and project
costs, and complying with loan covenants established during appraisal),
19 faced implementation or operational problems and one was
considered inactive.

Altogether, 441 project administration. missions, including private
sector loan missions and multiproject missions, were fielded to review the
progress of projects and to discuss problems, if any, with executing
agencies. These missions spent a total of 4,759 versondays, or an
average of 7.1 persondays:per project. The average was lower than last
year's 8.3 persondays per project. Implementation support was provided
to executing agencies by the Bank's regional and resident missions.
Portfolio performance reviews were carried out to improve disbursements
by restructuring or reformulating slow-moving-projects and identifying
loan proceeds for cancelation.

Country project review missions were undertaken in ten developing
member countries (DMCs). The purpose was to discuss implementation
problems, cross-secioral issues and remedial measures with senior
government officials.

The implementation of 70 projects was completed during the year,
bringing to 973 the curnulative number of completed ‘projects. Project
completion reports were prepared for 49 projects. The total number of
such reports prepared as of end-1995 was 677. For details, see
Table 21 in the Statistical Annex.

As in earlier years, project administration procedures continued to be
revised in the light of the Bank's Strategic Plan. Computer systems
continued to be developed for better monitoring and evaluation of benefits. Ten seminars and workshops were held to enhance the
implementation capabilities of executing agencies (see table). A total of
296 senior and middle-level officials benefited from this activity. Besides,
five in-house seminars were held for Bank staff dealing with project
processing and administration.

 

 

 

Contract Awards

During 1995, contracts totalling $3,438 million were awarded
by executing agencies in DMCs for consulting services,
procurement of goods and related services, and civil works. This
represented an 8% decrease from 1994. Consultancy contracts under
loan projects totalled $78.6 million. These involved 117 consutting firms

 

 

 

127ANNUAL REPORT 1995

 

 

Contract Awards and Disbursements:
1991-1995

4 Bilkon
of

  
 
   
    

50

att

0
1991

 

128

 

> Net Effective Loans
Contract Awards
Disbursements

perce ae oh

avd
1992 1993 1994 1995

 

(51 international and 66 domestic) and 33 individual consullants
(17 international ancl 16 domestic).

Far technical assistance projects, 519 contracts were awarded for
consultancy services amounting to $110 million and involving 394
consulting firms and 395 individual consullants

Seminars on business opportunities were held in Belgnum, Denmark,
Finland, France, India, Indonesia, Italy, Netherlands, Norway, Singapore,
Sweden, Taipei,China, Turkey and United States.

For details, see Tubles 22-30 in the Statistical Amex.

Loan Disbursements

Loan disbursements in 1995 amounted to $3,587 million, of which
OCR disbursements totalled $2,442 million and ADF disbursements
$1,145 million. The total loan disbursements exceeded the year's target
by 5%. The comparative details of disbursemenis in 1994 and 1995 by
lending modality are shown on the accompanying table.

Countries with significant disbursements during the year — a mark of
their success in implementing Bank projects ~ included Bangladesh,
People's Republic of China, India, Indonesia and Viet Nam.

Private Sector Investment Portfolio

The private sector investment portfolio had grown to $592 million as
of end-1995 from $505 million in 1994. The investments were in 88
companies in 11 DMCs. The portfolio was 17% higher than the previous
year in terms of invested funds. Loans accounted for 67% of the
portfolio.

Of the 88 companies which received Bank investments, 51 were in
full-scale operation, nine were in their initial operation, six were under
implementation, two were experiencing implementation problems, two
were having start-up problems, four were underperforming, three were in
liquidation and 11, representing 4% of the portfolio, were operating at a
loss.

Disbursements were in progress for ten investments, amounting to
$121 million, net of loan recoveries. Disbursements had been completed
for 104 investment facilities.

Interest and fee income earned in 1995 totalled $35 million,
compared to $33 million in 1994. Dividends received amounted to $6
million (3.9% yield), compared to $3.9 million in 1994 (3% yield). Capital
gains during the year, through the sale of shares and stock rights,
amounted to $400,000 against $30.2 million in 1994. The Bank's
specific provision against possible losses totalled $18.6 million at yearend. A general loss provision of $44.6 million was made, 8% of the
outstanding private sector portfolio (excluding projects with specific
provision) as of 31 December 1995,

 

|
|
i

 

 

VeePROJECT AND PROGRAM ADMINISTRATION

AN DISBURSEMENTS, 1994 AND 1995
jounts in'$ thousafid)~ seesPostevaluation Activities

] N LINE with the recommendations of the Task Force on Improving
Project Quality, the postevaluation work program in 1995 placed
emphasis on impact evaluation studies, reevaluation studies and special
studies, as well as on helping developing member countries (DMCs)
develop their performance evaluation capability. The coverage of project
performance audit reports was kept at a level of 30% of completed
projects (down from 50% in the preceding year), while that of impact
evaluation/reevaluation studies was increased to eight from four in the
previous year.

During the year, a total of 40 postevaluation reports were cornpleted. These comprised 20 project performance audit reports, four
technical assistance performance audit reports, three impact evaluation
studies, five reevaluation studies, two'special studies, the Seventeenth
Annual Review of Postevaluation Reports, the Fourteenth Report of
Postevaluation Abstracis, two country syntheses of postevaluation findings
and two sector syntheses of postevaluation findings.

 

 

 

 

‘ank has provided a loan to strengthen institutional capability for road maintenance

 

~Postevaluation and
Internal AuditANNUAL REPORT 1995

 

Performance of Postevaluated
Projects by Sector and Approval
Period - Group A Countries

 

 

 

 

 

No.of Project Approval Period: 1968-1972
7
i Generally Successful
z Partly Successful
i + Unsuccessful
4 ee
2 :
j i
Qube test -_——--——
Agriculture Physical Social Olhers
infrastructure Infrastructure:
, Approval Period: 1973-1977
we
10
8
6
4b
Be |
ol t ANT GTR ree
Agriculture Physical Social Others
Infrastructure Infrastructure
' Approval Period: 1978-1982
Wr
14 fb
12 |
10+
sh
6+ roan
4 \ ‘
2k
a : my oe en
Agriculture Physical Social Others,
Infrastructure Infrastructure
Approval Period: 1983-1990
4
FP
10
8
ot
deb
2
g
Agriculture Physical Social Others

Infrastructure Infrastructure

Note: ‘Physical Infrastructure’ includes transport and energy sectors, ‘Others’
includes multiseetor, development finance institutions and industry,

132

 

 

 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

Postevaluation Approach and
Project Classification

Tee: BANK underlakes postevaluation of completed projects mainly to
account to its shareholders and Lo draw lessons which can be applied to improve
the design of future projects and the developmental impact of its lending to
DMCs. Towards this end, a lwo-step evaluation system is followed. The first step
is the preparation of project completion reports by the operational divisions for
all completed projects/programs. It is believed that deing the initial evaluation
themselves is the best learning exposure for the operational divisions. The
second step isthe preparation of project performance audit reports by the Bank's
Postevaluation Office, providing an independent assessment. Project performance audit reporls examine the effectiveness and sustainability of projects and
focus on specific issues meriting closer attention, .

On the basis of implementation experience, expected performance and
developmental impact, projects are classified as “generally successful,” “partly
successful” or “unsuccessful.” A project is considered generally successful if it is
expected to be economically viable or can generate socioeconomic benefits
commensurate with original expectations and/or costs incurred. A project is
rated as partly successful if its benefits are believed to be sustainable at reduced
levels, with reasonable prospects for improvement if timely remedial aclionsare
taken. If a project is not technically and/or ecotiomically viable, itis classltied as
 unisucedssful. It is irtportantt to note that such classification rhade at the thine of
postevaluation may bé revised during subisequent reevaluation, Also} a partly
suécessful project is not to be viewed as an unsuccessful one: Postevaluation is
undertaken hot only through the preparation of project performance audit
reports but also through evaluation studies, which are aimed at mote intensive
analyses of particular issues’ or subjects of broader releve 6 nk's |
operations, practices’ and prodedures. These studies comprise impact ¢ 3
tion, reevaluation and special studies. Impact evaluation provides insights
the exiént to which the benefits of Bank lending in a particular secto aré sp)
and sustained. Reevaluation analyzes prdjectimpactand sustainability about fi
yeai's afte postevaluation. Special studies provide interisive analyses of parti
) Jation findings

 
  

 

     
   
     
   

 

 

Project Performance Audit Reports

The 20 project performance audit reports prepared during the year
covered 18 projects and two program loans, selected on a random basis.
Of these, 13 projects and one program were in six Group A countries;
four projects and one program in three Group B countries; and one
project in a Group C country?.

Most of the projects/programs postevaluated during the year had
been approved during the 1980s and completed by the early 1990s.

Sectorwise, eight projecis and one program were under agriculture
and agro-industry, four projects and one program under transport and

 

1 For en explanation of country groups, see box on page 81

 

 

 

 

 

i
i
|POSTEVALUATION AND INTERNAL AUDIT

 

communications, four projects under social infrastructure and one project
each under energy and industry.

Cumulatively, by the end of the year, 452 project performance audit
reports had been prepared for 472 projects and prograrns, covering all
major sectors and subsectors in 26 DMCs.

Of the 20 projects and programs posievaluated in 1995, 10 were
rated as generally successful (50%), nine as partly successful (45%) and
one as unsuccessful (5%).

Cumulatively, of the 472 projects and programs postevaluated, 470
had been classified as of end-1995. The classification of two projects had
been deferred. Of the 470 proiects/programs classified, 279 (60%) were
generally successful, 143 (30%) partly successful and 48 (10%)
unsuccessful.

The performance analysis by sector for the 1995 group of
postevaluated projects/programs is limited by the small sample size.
Nevertheless, the projects in the energy, industry, and transport and
communications sectors continued io have high success rates because
these projects used known technologies and were not heavily influenced
by external factors, like fluctuations in international commodity prices. On
the other hand, projects in the agriculture and social infrastructure sectors
performed somewhat less satisfactorily. Such projects suffered from
design deficiencies, weak management, limited absorptive capacity of
public institutions, poor consultant services, intermittent civil disturbances,
changes in government policies and inadequate funds for operation and
maintenance.

Total investment costs of the projects/programs postevaluated in
1995 had originally been estimated at $1,561 million. Actual costs upon
completion came to $1,374 million, about 12% lower. The factors
responsible for the cost underruns included reduction in project scope,
movements of exchange rates, underutilization of ‘credit lines resulting,
among other things, from lack of credit demand, and overestimation of
project costs and contingencies during appraisal.

In terms of actual investment costs and total disbursements, the
performance of the 1995 sample was more satisfactory. On the basis of
investment costs, 76% of the projects/programs postevaluated were
generally successful, 20% partly successful and 3% unsuccessful. This
indicated that, on average, postevaluated proiects rated as “generally
successful” involved bigger investment costs. In terms of disbursements,
the respective rates were 59%, 37% and 4%.

, All projects encountered implementation delays, ranging from six
months to seven years. The siippages were attributable to factors such as
delays in loan effectiveness, deficiencies in design and changes in project
scope, unsatisfactory performance of contractors, lack of counterpart ©
funds, difficulties in the recruitment of consultants, labor and procurement
problems, inexperience and lack of authority of executing agencies, land
acquisition problems and civil disturbances. In the case of the two
postevaluated program loans, certain policy reforms had not been
completed.

 

 

 

 

Performance of Postevaluated
Projects by Sector and Approval
Period - Group B Countries

Approval Period: 1968-1972

= of Projecs

SBS Generally Successful
8B Partly Successful
25 Unsuccessful

   
  
  

Agriculture Physical _Soiiet "Others
ei

   
 
 

Agrieviture Physical Social ers,

Infrastuctuze Infrastructure

Approval Period: 1978-1982

 

   

Agt Physical Social ars
Infrastructure Infrastructure

Approval Period: 1983-1990

 

Physical * Social’ 7: Others
Infrastructure» Tnfrastruchie

Note: ‘Physical Indastructure’ includes transport and energy secters, ‘Others’
includes multisector, development finance institutions and industry.

 
 

 

133ANNUAL REPORT 1995

 

Performance of Postevaluaied
Projects by Sector and Approval
Period - Group C Countries

Approval Period: 1968-1972

~ Generally
Successful
Partly Successful
Unsuccessful

No. al Projects
10

8

 
   
 

I
i
i
i
te
i

 

Physical Socia! Others
Infrastructure Infrastructure

Approval Period: 1973-1977

 

 

 

|
2 bed, Is
: i | pie :
Physical Social Others
Infrastructure infrastructure

Approval Period: 1978-1982

jo

Agriculture

 

 

Social Others

Agriculture Physical
Infrastructure —_ Infrastructure
Approval Period: 1983-1990
2
ps
tees op
re ‘ |
; Oe ‘Agriculture Physical Social Others

   

 

Infrastructure —_Infrastructure

Note: ‘Physical Infrastructure’ includes transport and energy sectors, ‘Others’
includes multisector, development finance Institutions and Industry.

134

Technical Assistance Performance
Audit Reports

The four technical assistance audil reports prepared in 1995 related
to a project in the People's Republic of China (PRC) for coastal marine
resource management and development in the East China Sea; institutional strengthening in the housing sector in Bangladesh; institutional
support to water supply enterprises in Indonesia; and a study on vehicular
emission control planning in the Philippines. The first two projects were
found to be successful in meeting their objectives while the other two
were partly successful. The less-than-satisfactory performance of the twa
latter projects were due largely to design shorleomings and an inadequate
analysis of the absorptive capacity of the recipients.

The experience of the postevaluated technical assistance projects
highlighted the need for an accurate assessment of the effective demand
for services and the absorptive capacity of beneficiary agencies.

Capacity-building goals should be set on the basis of institutional
analysis. Capacities that are expected to exist after project completion
should also be explicitly defined. In addition, it is important to adopt a
logical framework approach in designing technical assistance projects to
ensure the consistency of inputs and outputs, and to facilitate monitoring
during implementation.

Impact Evaluation Studies

Three impact evaluation studies were carried out during the year to
assess the impact of Bank lending in the health and population subsector
in Sri Lanka, the gas subsector in Pakistan, and the agriculture and social
sectors in the Philippines. Benefit monitoring and evaluation aspects were
particularly looked into in the Philippine study.

The study on the Sri Lanka project revealed a positive impact on
health in the areas covered by the project. The rate of population growth
had decreased, as had the morbidity and mortality rates. The study
emphasized that full participation of key government officials, regional
health administrators and care providers, as well as of targeted beneficiaries, is important during project design to create a sense of ownership
among all concerned.

The Pakistan study indicated that Bank assistance to the country’s
gas subsector had benefited industrial and household consumers. However, the relatively low prices of gas at certain times and for certain
sectors had encouraged a less efficient use of gas and led to shortages.
The study confirmed that: (i) an appropriate policy environment is
important if the full potential of a project’s benefits is to be realized; and
that (ii) low prices are not’always an effective way of assisting the poor.

The study on the Philippines confirmed the Bank’s positive contributions in sensitizing policymakers at both national and executing agency
levels about the concept of benefit monitoring and evaluation. However,
the Bank approach of placing the responsibilities for benefit monitoring
and evaluation at the project management unit level did not help in
institutionalizing the system,POSTEVALUATION

 

<D INTERNAL AUDIT

 

 

 

Reevaluation Studies

Reevaluation studies were undertaken for five projects under
various sectors to assess their performance and sustainability several
years after their postevaluation.

The reevaluation of an irrigation project in Viet Nam reconfirmed
its performance rating of “partly successful” given at postevaluation in
1987. The project was unable to soive the problems of recurrent
flooding, intrusions of salinity and acidity, and sluggish surface drainage despite several changes in scope, components and implementation
arrangemenis. .

The Rural Electrification Project in Sri Lanka was reevaluated six
years after its postevaluation in 1989 and its classification was changed
from “generally successful” to “partly successful.” The civil unrest in
that country had rendered 95 schemes completed under the project
nonfunctional. At least 15 of these schemes had been destroyed.

The fourth development bank project in Western Samoa was
reevaluated six years after its postevaluation in 1989 and reconfirmed
as “partly successful.” Due to limitations in loan supervision and
collection, subloan collections had been slow. The findings indicated
that the development bank's loan appraisal; administration and
coliection capabitities should have been upgraded and it should have
been allowed to charge market-based rates of interest to improve its
self-sustainability.

Reevaluation of the Technical Education Project in Papua New
Guinea reconfirmed its “partly successful” rating at postevaluation in
1990. The decline in enro!!ment, first identified at postevaluation.

 

 

 

135EE
a

ANNUAL REPORT 1995
\

 

Performance of Postevaluated
Projects by Sector and Approval
Period - All Projects

Approval Period: 1968-1972

es
24 ee
20

i
16 if
12 ba
;

No. of Projects
28

S<i_ Generally Successful
Partly Successful
Unsuecessful

Fe] ir
pa, Wt tls

Agricullure Physical Social Others
Infrastructure —Infraslructure

Approval Period: 1973-1977
|

    
  

   

Agriculture Physical Sacial Others
Infrastructure —_ Infrastructure

Approval Period: 1978-1982

    
   

Lt Lal i a
Agriculture Physical Social Others
Infrastructure Infrastructure

Approval Period: 1983-1990

 

Agriculture Physical Social Others
{Infrastructure Infrastructure

Note: ‘Physical Infrastructure’ includes transport and eneray sectors, ‘Others’
includes multisector, development finance instilullons and industry.

136

 

continued, and the employment potential of graduates fell to 50% (from
around 60% io 70% until 1992) because of a downturm in the economy.
In addition, the underutilization and inadequate maintenance of equipment and facilities, reduction in the number of apprentices, and discontinuance of the monitoring system had adversely affected project operations.

An urban development project in Indonesia was reevaluated and the
“generally successful” rating given at postevaluation in 1989 was reconfirmed. The project substantially achieved its objectives of expanding the
national kampung (village) improvement program, upgrading essential
sanitary services and providing low-cost housing in Bandung. It emphasized the importance of an integrated approach to urban development.
Environmental surcharges on water supply were found to be an effective
means of financing sewerage development. Joini billing of solid waste
management and electricity charges was seen as an effective means of
improving the cost recovery of solid waste management services.

Special Studies

During the year, two special studies were carried out to assess the
effectiveness of Bank assistance for capacity building in Nepal and
Western Samoa in terms of the extent of technology transfer and
institutional development.

Of the ten advisory technical assistance projects under the social
sector covered in the Nepal study, seven were found to have substantially
achieved their objectives in general (e.g., formulation of plans, the
development of a regulatory framework, etc.). The study, however, found
that these projects were ad hoc in nature, formulated independently of
each other without adequate sectoral or institutional analysis, and
involved very few key officials of targeted institutions. The study concluded that the preparation of advisory technical assistance must be
preceded by rigorous institutional needs analyses and that such projects
should foster executing agency ownership and involve domestic expertise.

The study on Western Samoa concluded that, even though the
technical assistance projects covered had achieved substantial success in
terms of technical effectiveness, they generally fell short of expectations
in terms of capacity building, It emphasized the importance of:

(i) adequate diagnostic analysis and needs assessment (with client priorities clearly established); (ii) a comprehensive institutional program (for the
Bank), identifying the core areas of business in a recipient country and
ensuring that agencies have adequate resources for specified tasks; and
(ii) institutionalizing the criteria for screening capacity-building proposals
and for developing strict design criteria for advisory technical assistance
projects,

Feedback of Postevaluation Findings

The 1995 postevaluation experience highlighted several lessons
relevant to future Bank operations. These include the importance of
keeping project design simple, well focused and manageable in scope, in
line with DMCs’ capacity for implementation, operation and maintenance. It is also important to examine the sociocultural aspects of
beneficiaries, secure their participation at various stages of projectPOSTEVALUATION AND INTERNAL AUDIT

 

processing and ensure that benefits are properly targeted and delivered. 1
Tne project design should also provide for a detailed monitoring and i
evaluation of benefits. Any alternatives should be considered at the
project preparation and design stage. These findings are now deing
incorporated in the design of new projects. :

Efforts were continued during the year to enhance the effectiveness
of the feedback system within the Bank so that lessons learned from
postevaluation could be applied to improve projects and developrnent
activities. The computerized postevaluation inforrnation system was
redesigned to make it more user-friendly. This was supplemented by the
circulation of the Fourteenth Report of Postevaluation. Abstracts and the
Seventeenth Annual Review of Postevaluatioa Reports in Apri!, and the
completion of two country syntheses of postevaluation findings (Papua
New Guinea and Viet Nam) and two sector syntheses (irrigation and rural
development, and urban development and housing).

Apart from reviews of operational docurnents on a routine basis, a
feedback workshop was held in April to discuss the issues arising from the
experience of Bank-financed projects in the water supply and sanitation
suosector. Several issues were discussed, including economic evaluation
of water supply projects, valuation and pricing of water, institutional
development and corporatization/privatization, project design and the
financing of sanitation projects. Also, two meetings of the Management
Committee on Postevaluation Findings were held in April and December.
The meetings emphasized the need to address issues relating to borrower
commitment and beneficiary participation, program lending, privatization
of infrastructure projects, performance of social sector projects and
project compietion reports.

Postevaluation Capacity of DMCs

The Bank further stepped up its efforts to help develop DMCs’ own

evaluation capabilities and feedback systems. Under a regional technical
" assistance grant, feedback workshops were conducted in Nepal, Sri

Lanka and Thailand, continuing the series first launched in the Philippines
in late 1994, A regional workshop was organized in June, and an
Agenda for Action was drawn. up, outlining short and long-term measures
for strengthening the evaluation capacity and the feedback process in
DMCs. In addition, two advisory technical assistance grants were provided
to study project planning and management ir. PRC and to further
strengthen the postevaluation capability in Thailand.

Interagency Cooperation

The Bank maintained close coordination with multilateral and
bilateral aid agencies on postevaluation activities through the Expert
Group on Aid Evaluation of the Development Assistence Committee of
the Organization for Economic Cooperation and Development. This kas
promoted professional contact and interaction among agencies on areas
relating to evaluation policy, classification system, methodology and
feedback, and the sharing of information on postevaluation results and
findings.ANNUAL REPORT 1995

In 1995,
the Bank expanded
the scope

of project-related
audits

as part of its
efforts to

improve project
quality.

  
 

 

 

 
   

 

 

 

Internal Audit

In order to further promote efficiency and economy in Bank administration and to improve its internal control systems, the responsibilities of
the Internal Audit Office (AO) were expanded to cover the investigation
function. This function includes independent investigations into possible
abuse, waste and inefficiency of internal adminislrative maiters within the
Bank. [AO was thus renamed Office of the General Auditor (OGA),
effective 1 January 1995, as part of the reorganization of the Bank,

OGA reports to the President. Its activities are reviewed by the Audit
Commitice of the Board to ensure that these are adequate and efficient
OGA’s principal responsibilities include assisting all levels of management
in the Bank by furnishing them with periodic, independent and objective
appraisals and audits of financial, accounting, administrative, projectrelated, computer-based and other activities within their areas of responsibility, including identifying possible means of irnproving the efficiency and
economy of activities and of the use of resources.

In conformity to Management's directives for all departments and
offices to increase productivity, adopt more rigorous standards of performance and enforce stricter accountability, OGA actively participated in
the Bankwide effort to enhance the efficiency and effectiveness of the
Bank's operations. OGA continues to implement its initiatives commenced in 1994, in addition to the regular activities which have consider
ably expanded. As such, during the year: (i) an audit of the financial
derivatives was conducted; {ii) an update of the Audit Manual was in its
final stages of completion; (tii) the development and testing of the Audit
Information Management System, which will automate the work of OGA
staff, was ongoing; and {iv} to further promote operations audit, the
terms of reference of selected audits were expanded to place additional
emphasis on the 3Es, ie., economy, efficiency and effectiveness.

During the year, OGA continued to maintain an adequate level of
financial, administrative and computer-related audits, and expanded the
scope of project-related audits, in view of the Bank’s emphasis on
enhancement of project quality, including improved project implementation and administration. Various audit subjects were covered, including
the staff retirement plan, Indonesia Resident Mission procedures, SWIFT
Operations, the security of personnel information, and systemwide
password and access control administration. OGA also undertook a
mission to the India and Nepal Resident Missions and reviewed auditrelated issues of selected loans in Nepal.

As part of its advisory services to other departments and offices,
OGA actively participated in, among others: (i) the formulation of the
Executive Information System, particularly for the departments and
offices in the finance and administration group, as part of the Management Information System being developed to provide Management, in a
timely manner, with key data on operations and other activities; {il) the
restructuring of the Operations Manual; and (iii) the revision of certain
project administration instructions. OGA also participated in the development and signing-off of a number of in-house computer systems and
subsystems. This ensured that appropriate internal control mechanisms
were included in the design of each system and that the systems were in
compliance with the related policies and procedures of the Bank.

In line with an audit recommendation that the role of government
auditors in borrowing countries be expanded beyond financial account-POSTEVALUATION AND INTERNAL

  
  

ability to focus more on performance accountability, OGA was actively
involved, in an advisory capacity, in the formulation of technical assistance projects for this purpose in a number of DMCs, It also participated
in @ country programming mission to explore a possidle project on the
development of auditing capabilities.

OGA continued to be actively involved in the annuai audits of
selected consultants’ contracts for technical assistance projects. Commencing in 1995, ongoing contracts were also selected for audit purposes in addition to compieted contracts. Advice was provided on how to
resolve issues resulting from such audits. OGA's direct and integrated
assistance to the Bank’s outside auditors continued to include updating of
the internal control questionnaire and examination of selected transactiors on borrowing, investment, administrative expenses and loan
disbursements. The outside auditors evaluated OGA’s work as competent, objective and independent.

The status of implementation of audit recommendations is monitored
by OGA and reported semi-annually to Management and the Audit
Committee of the Board, as well as to heads of departments/offices for
necessary action. The response of the auditee departrnents/offices
indicated that OGA’s recommendations were appropriate. The Audit
Committee of the Board was generally satisfied at the rate of implementetion of audit recommenéations.

pe San igi Shed cc aneseinttht tae

 

The Bank has
assisted Cook Isiands
in deveicping

# telecommunications
facilities in

its outer islands.Sle of th,

 

Administration

Appointment of Vice-President

HE BOARD of Directors, acting on the recommendation of

- President Mitsuo Sato, appointed Pierre Uhel as Vice-President (Finance

and Administration) with effect from 1 July. Mr. Uhel succeeded VicePresident Gunther Schulz, who retired from the service of the Bank on
30 June. 8

Prior to his appointment, Mr. Uhel was the Resident Executive
Director at the Airican Development Bank in Abidjan, representing
Belgium, France and Italy.

Human Resource Management
and Development

 

At the end of 1995, the Bank had a total staff of 1,920 coming
42 of its 56 member countries. The total comprised 642 professional
stai* and 1,278 supporting staff. During the year, there were 57
appointments and 60 terminations of professional staff while 60 supporting staff joined the Bank and 63 left.

A strengthened career progression system has been introduced for
supporting staff. It supports career growth for junior-level supporting staff
through a person-driven promotion system. For supporting staff in the
sertor levels, staff development programs have been revised to enhance
skills and facilitate changes in career stream.

The menu of staif development programs has been expanded.
Besides in-house training, Bank staff can now avail of external learning
events, study tours, external assignmenis, leave of absence for siaff
development, education assistance, temporary reassignments within the
Bank, job rotation and computer-based self-leaming programs.

The Bank entered into a long-term: contract with an outside consultant to further develop its Manager Development Program, which wiil
focus specifically on building key manageria’ skills, such as strategy
development, decision making, team management, work process redesign and staff cevelopment.

The Specia: Separation Program, approved by the Board in 1994,
was implemented during the year. Thirty-four professional staff and 76
supporting staff availed of the program.

  

 

> Includes Management. i2., the President and Vice-President, but excludes Directo-s* Assistants.

Striking picture of a worker against the backdrop of a giant crane at the construction

@ Pouier XXIProject in Indonesia.

 

 

Conducting

a laboratory test
under the
Brackishwater
Aquaculture
Development Project
in Indonesia.

 

141ANNUAL REPORT 1995

     

Compensation and Benefits

The Board approved averall pay increases of 4.4% for professional
slaff and 10.8% for supporting staff, effective 1] June 1995. The
increases were distributed to staff according to performance and their
relative positions in (heir respective salary ranges. The dependency
allowance for supporting staff was increased

The Pension Committee approved the implementing guidelines for
discretionary benelits under the Siaf{ Retirement Plan, which enabled the
staff to buy additional retirement benefits. Effective 1 April 1995, the
Group Life and Group Disability Insurance Plans were restructured to
allow staff to choose their level of coverage. A Sponsored Group Medical
Insurance Plan was introduced, under which staff could enroll their
parents/parents-intaw. These changes provided additional flexibility to
staff, with no additional cost to the Bank.

|

 

| For this
Ih farmer-beneficiary | Appeals Committee
in Nepal, this

sre Mae tin During 1995, the Bank’s Appeals Committee, which is charged with

Third Small Farmers the responsibility to ensure that the Bank's interpretation and application :

: Development Project of administrative rules and regulations have been just and fair, considered

has opened up 17 appeals and rendered its decision on 14 of them.

ag new income
opportunity.

 

Administrative Tribunal

| In 1995, the Board approved an expansion in the membership of
| the ADB Administrative Tribunal from three to five judges. Consequent
Wale to the resignations of Professor Elibu Lauterpacht, the president of the
WY tribunal, and of Mr. Justice Florentino P. Feliciano, Mr. Justice Mark D.
H. Fernando of the Supreme Court of Sri Lanka and Professor Robert A.

| Gorman of the University of Pennsylvania, USA, were elected as its
president and vice-president, respectively. The other members of the
tribunal are: Professor Brigitte Stern of the University of Paris I Panthéon Sorbonne; H.E. Dr, Laxmi M. Singhvi, a senior advocate
before the Supreme Court of India and currently High Commissioner for
India to the United Kingdom; and Professor Toshio Sawada of Sophia
University and vice-chairman of the ICC International Court of Arbitration, Paris.

The tribunal met in March and August, and rendered decisions in
five cases.

 

 

 

 

Opening of North American Office

The Bank opened a North American Representative Office (NARO)
in Washington, D.C., USA in October, its first official presence in a
donor country. The purpose of NARO is to communicate better with the
Governments of Canada and United States, and liaise with development *
communities, businessmen, academics and non-governmental organizations in the two countries. It is expected that this improved communication will generate stronger support in North America for the Bank’s

 

142DMINISTRATION

 

efforts to promote socioeconomic growth in the developing countries in
the Asian and Pacific region.

Information Technology Program

Network capabilities were extended during the year to the South
Pacitic Regional Mission, Indonesia Resident Mission and India Resident
Mission. .

An ADB World Wide Web home page was established on the
Internet, which included, among other things, information on ADB
Business Opportunities and project profiles. Full Internet capabilities were
provided for selected areas in the Bank for accessing other multilateral
organizations, news providers, online libraries and legal information
sources.

‘The Lotus Notes infrastructure was completed during the year
allowing the implementation of Bankwide applications, such as Administrative Orders and Circulars, Project Administration Instructions and Loan
Documents from 1993 to 1995

. Client/server applications development was initiated. it included the
Resident Mission Accounting System, Exit Clearance System, Visitors
Access Control System, and Lotus Notes-extensions for interface with the
Private Sector System and Project Processing Information Systern. A
client/server-based Bank Account Reconciliation System was selected and
implemented.

Administrative Services

To improve the efficiency of its library, the Bank implemented tha
initial introduction of the Virginia Technology Library System. The
integrated system is intended to provide staff with full access to library
information in varied formats. The introduction of Internet resources as a
supplement to. the print collection of the library made useful j ation
available via the World Wide Web. The Bank’s energy conservation
project continued to be impiemented during the year, resulting in signi‘icant savings in energy cost. A shift was made during the year to cormputerize the production of maps, vastly improving the quality of maps and
reducing staffhours in producing them.

     

Budget

Internal Administrative Expenses (IAE) for 1995 amounted to
$174.749 million, against the original budget of $176.966 million:. The
underutilization of $2.217 million was mainly due to the nonutilization of
the provision for the inspection panel, lower expenses for staff develop-"
ment, consultants, business travel, office occupency and contractual
services, which were partially offset by increased expenses for salaries,
benefits, relocation and office equipment.

 

1 Exclces the Special Separation Program (SS?) cost of $12.300 million. Tote] expenses for the
program amounted to $8.980 million {of which $2.550 million was charged te 1994} cue to the lewerthan-projected numer cf eligible staff that availed of :t.

 

|

 

 

Engineer at the
Tarbela Hydropower
station in Pakistan,
which has

received Bank

loans totalling
$400.8 miltion.

 

143f ANNUAL REPORT 1995

The IAE Budget for 1996 of $189.881 million (summarized in
Appendix 1) represents an increase of $15.132 million over the actual
expenses of $174.749 million incurred in 1995, The increase is mainly
due to provisions for anticipated price changes, higher requirements for
staff consullants and staf! development, requirements of the proposed
establishment of new representative offices and resident rnissions, the
inspection function and other policy initiatives, as well as further work in
relation to ADF VII negotiations and the usual provision for general
contingency.

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

| Low-cost housing

: in Tanga, one of the t

‘ activities supported Hs
through the t

Fourth Tonga

Development Bank
loan: Independent Auditors’. Repor
~ SSF-L: éDeloitte &

 

Touche Lip

 

 

* San Francisco, CaliASIAN DEVELOPMENT BANK ~ ORDINARY CAPITAL RESOURCES
| BALANCE SHEET
i
i 31 December 1995 and 31 December 1994
Expressed in Thousands of United States Dollars (Note B}
ASSETS
‘ 1995 1994
DUE FROM BANKS (Notes B and C) $ $4,414 $ 147,464
|
f INVESTMENTS (Notes B, C, D and J)
i Government and government-guaranteed obligations $ 2,502,675 $ 1,797,847
Time deposits and other obligations of banks 3,565,862 6,068,537 3,846,856 5,644,703
LOANS QUTSTANDING (OCR-5) (Notes A, B and E)
] Members and guaranteed by members 17,131,900 16,120,532
i ! Private sector 398,201 378,252
nt , 17,530,101 16,498,784
4 Less i allowance for Possible losses 38,540 17,491,561 33,466 16,465,318
. EQUITY INVESTMENTS (Notes A, B and F} 184,279 130,666,
" Less = allowange ‘for possible losses 20,496 163,783 11,624 119,042
; | ACCRUED INCOME ;
| On Investments 133,685 73,682 er
Nh: h 286,772 420,457 294,732 368,414
| 42 i ats Ba
Ae E FROM MEMBERS i
Lye. Sn-negotiable, Hori-interest-bearing deinand *. asa ,
WR © obligations. (Notes Cand). * : 325,147 305,975."
en “Ardounts required to malnialg value of currency .
He : holdings (Nate 1) « 4,552 3,897
ae ., Subscription instal eit iiss we 2,144 331,843
AW OTHER ASSET
‘ Réceivable tr i 4,476,938
Notional’amounts
! currency ‘holdicig 652,799
| Property, furniture and equi ol
BADE SB vote s accumulated depréciation of 3 195 =. “1998,
los cs! << $34,547 = 1994) (Notes B and'G)o 0s 180,266
; | Bgue : « Unamortized issuarice costs of borvewiids yf 83,592
il} _pamiinitration chatge receivable from the «
iL ~ Asia Developrnent Fund (ate 1). 15,800
ita % 63,366 5,472,761

 

 

 

  

$30,033,356 - >:

 

 

   

wales ta bane alanent (ocr). .

 

 

© $28,088,199 6)1995

 
       

$ 14,598,850 3 1 13,684, 308

    

    
 
 

356,757 : 349, 898

 
  

$ 5,358,182

334,610
118

 
   
 

667
112,539 5,806,116

 
     
    
 

43,077,826
39,642,563

 
  

3,435,263
337,110

 
   
   
  

3,098,153

 
  

70,771

 
 
 
 
  
 

3,027,382

  
  

Unrealized investinent! t holding gai

 
 
  
  
    

   
 
    
  
 
   

’ (Notes B and D) 26,169
Accumulated translation adjustrient (Note B) 306,651
© Ordinary Reserve (Note J} 5,003,274
» « Special Reserve (Note J} : 4 178,112
* Surplus {Note Jd} .” ae 70,000
:. Net income after appropriation of guarantee fees - bays :
to Special. Reserve (OCR: 2) pee dS! es 660,045 9,271,633

   
 
    

   

 

$30,033,356OCR-2

  
  
   
   
   
   
    
    
   
    
    
  
    

ASIAN DEVELOPMENT BANK - ORDINARY CAPITAL RESOURCES
STATEMENT OF INCOME AND EXPENSES
For the Years Ended 31 December 1995 and 31 December 1994

Expressed in Thousands of United States Dollars (Note B)

 

1995 1994

INCOME (Note K)
From loans (Notes B and E}
Interest $1,263,909 $1,139,155

Commitment charge 47,430 45,487
Other 1,489 $1,312,828 2,869 $1,187,511

From investments (Notes B and D) :
Interest 372,140 308,667
Net gain (loss) on sales 46,538 418,678 (12,568) 296,099

From other sources ~ net 13,824 41,700

_ TOTAL INCOME $1,745,330 $1,525,810

 

( sf

EXPENSES (Note K)

' ‘, . Interest and other financial expenses 962,641 _'. 878,367:

. . .. Adnitoistrative expenses (Notes L and M) 108,303 ah eT if
Provision for losses (Notes B, E and F) 13,946

TOTAL EXPENSES 1,084,890
BOE NET INCOME . oe 660,440

" APPROPRIATION OF GUARANTEE FEES i
TO SPECIAL RESERVE (Note J) {395}

 

 

   
 

 

 

 

 

 

 
 
      
  

NET INCOME AFTER APPROPRIATION
OF GUARANTEE FEES TO SPECIAL

RESERVE $ 660,045 3

 

 

See notes to financial statements “(OCR-8),ASIAN DEVELOPMENT BANK - ORDINARY CAPITAL RESOURCES | .
STATEMENT: OF CASH FLOWS

For the Years Ended 31 December 1995 and 31 December 1994 |

 
 
  

Expressed in Thousands of United States Dollars (Note B)

 

 

1995

    

CASH FLOWS FROM OPERATING ACTIVITIE!
Interest, and other charges.on loans, received:
» Interest on apvestimentt n re eived :)

   

PG 6991 831:

"303,247 *
& (851,343)
(65. 143)

$ 1,109,918
315,247
(899,599)
(80,401)
(36,478)

408,687:

       
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
  
 
  
 
    
   
 
 
 
 
 
   
 

  

364,282
8,178,766
16,498,806
(25,270,910)
1,350,889
(2,222,273)
(2,309)
(57,740)

(1,160,489) :

 
 

    
 
 
 
  

 

 

2,445,546
(1,566,370)
21,810
3,931.
(71,391)
(145,000)
688,526
226

(63,050) :
147,464

$ 84,414 &

OPERATING ACINITES,
jet Income’. -* Be 660,440
Aaenneee to reconcile‘net it come to.
net cash provided by.operating a :
“Accrued interest and other expenses. * > 17,948
Accrued income including interest and:

commitment charges added to. loans." * (259,803)
Depreciation and amortization’: Boe Oy tou Be 35,331

Net gain (loss) from sales of investments at Se a of : (46,538) ;
. Accrued administrative expenses Z * st 3,920

Provision for losses ea gos "ee mate B e 13,946 2

. - Other ~ net : 6 wet iy Dee ae (86,757) .
Net Cash Provided by Operating Activities © 0 a $408,687

 

* See notes tc financial statements (OCR-8).: Charge in accurat ated |

 

SS Woted) ee ee ee 999,450

‘ Charge to ordinary reser

ASIAN DEVELOPMENT BANK - ORDINARY CAPITAL RESOURCES
STATEMENT OF CHANGES IN CAPITAL AND RESERVES
For the Years Ended 31 December 1995 and 31 December 1994

Expressed in Thousands of United States Dollars (Note B)

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Unrealized Net Income After
Investment Accumulated Appropriation of
Capitat Holding Translation Ordinary —_ Special Guarantee Fees to
Siock Gains (Losses) Adjustments [Reserve Reserve Surplus Special Reserve Totals
Balances 1 January 1994 $2,716,047 $40,001 $(22,774) $4,180,432 $177,344 $ 7 $569,450 $7,660,500
Change in SDR value of
paid-in shares subscribed 179,449 179,449
Additional paid-in shares
subscrited during the year 127,451 127,451
Change in fubseription 5, “ee :
“instalments not dug» (105,025), (108,025)
Change ii SDR value of, Se te
"capital transferred to “* ,
Asiait evalopinert Fund , (4,108)
Chane, in unvealized itn me
* holding losses (Note me” (62,948)

© stranélation adjusténente E . : 287,960... i hehe Bobi Pe

Allogation of 1993" o ay ose i v P : ia :
inet inéome to‘ordinary. sesetilp Eee ee Mele on nda Fore ee ee aT
499,450)

   
 

 

Allocation af 1998 net iricome °°,
to Technical Assistari¢e, ."',."!
Special Fund (Note d) 0!

 

   

“. (70,000)

    

for change in SDR value
capital stock (Note J)

 

 

Net income for the year 1994 : i

 

 

Balances = °° | vi
31 December 1994
Forward) :

 

- §(12,947) $285,186 $4,650,266 $177,717 $=" $518,106 $8,477,131= . Unrealized Net Income After
©. Investment Accumulated Appropriation :of
Capital” Holding ‘Translation Ordinary —_ Special Guarantee Fees to"

      
            

  

Stock“ Gains (Lossés) Adjustments Reserve Reser

 

‘Surplus Special Reserve,“ Totals .

   

Toe pb

adjustments,
994

   
 

  
  
 
  

   

Balances - : i pe ee : ee ee :
31 December 1995 $3,027,382 :.~ $26,169." $306,651- $5,003,274 $178,112: $7!ASIAN DEVELOPMENT BANK - ORDINARY CAPITAL RESOURCES
SUMMARY STATEMENT OF LOANS
31 December 1995 and 31 December 1994

Expressed in Thousands of United States Dollars (Note B)

 

 

 

 
 
 
  
   
 
 
  
  

 

 

 

 

 

Undisbursed Loans
Loans Balances of Noi Yet Total Per Cent of oe

Borrowers/Guarantors Outstanding! Effective Loans’ Effective Loans Total Loans Bangladesh $ 734 $ - $ 26,000 $ 26,734 0.09 i
China, People’s Rep. of 1,946,766 2,038,687 1,258,000 5,243,453 16.69 a
Fijt 64,450 5,396 - 69,846 0.22
India 2,393,052 2,392,056 432,000 5,217,108 16.60
Indonesia 5,856,896 3,489,926 755,000 10,101,822 32.14
Kazakhstan 63,675 76,325 = 140,000 0.45
Korea, Rep. of 599580. 1,774 - 601,354 1.91
Malaysia 566,047 285,350 94,600 945,997 3.01
Myanmar 2,957 - - 2,957 0.04
Nepal. - 2,050 - 8,000 10,050 0.03
Pakisian 2,214,384 553,166 100,000 2,867,550 9,12
Papua New Guinea , 148,344 46,546 of 194,890 :
Philippities . 2,592,803 835,123 531,000 3,958,926 ©
Thalland « 1,078,363 637,876 330,000 2,046,239

totas- 81 December 1995 17,530,101 10,362,225 3,534,600 31,426,926 . " f
"Allowance for possible losses zt (38,540) . “8, 540) oe
New BALANCES « 31 1 Decombet 1996- $17,491,561" $10,362,225 $3,534,600 $31, 388, 286
§ r7asiige0 | $ “10258081 § 9600600. § 80, se, sf

 
   
 

2360 661".

“io714d’ 34,000"

  
  
 

-_ 500, 805

 

 

   
 
 

- etc STG 5 : $ 10,362,225 - 3,534,600 £ 3388 36
TOTALS~ 31 Decinber 1954. 784. $ 16,00a98, * $ 2,830,821"

Allowance for possible ee

 

    

238.466):

 

 

 

 

 

 

 
 

 

 

   

 

 

NET BALANCES - at December 1994 : | $16,868,318 © $10,004,498 $2,530,821 ‘$29,000,634
ic “ ade ip ofa te “4 ee Jang on TE, = i OY
Members aid guaranteed by ‘namberd ae oes $ 9,881 880: $. 2,489,321. $° 28,491,733
Private sector (ret of allowance for. ay _
possible, losses) 228s 615 241,500 * 508,901
Nat balances + 81 Deane! 1994 og 3.530,821 . --$. 29,000,634

   
  
    
   
    

  
 
    
 
   

‘ cose and 7,125% per apncim to
\ marie

   

7.106 in 1995 (7.40% = 1994)
Of the undisbursed balances, the Bank has
. 9 the private setts are safari

 

ctor: Amdunts outstan fing
27,293 he Al?, 437 - ae “The average yield on loans was,

(9 goveinmebts on ‘with government
‘of loaing matié under the Pool-Based2,344,241
3,249,808 ;

$17,530,101 |ASIAN DEVELOPMENT BANK - ORDINARY CAPITAL RESOURCES
i SUMMARY STATEMENT OF BORROWINGS
31 December 1995 and 31 December 1994

Expressed in Thousands of United States Dollars (Note B)

 

Borrowings ay

 

Weighted Average

 

 

  

   
 
 
   
 
 
     
 
 
 
 
 
  
  
  
   
     

 

 

 

Principal Outstanding! __ Cost (%)

1995 1994 1995

Austrian schilling $ 99,128 $ 91,166 8.08

Canadian dollar 183,123 178,215 7.88

Deutsche mark 482,735 587,229 7.16
Hong Kong dollar 193,987 193,848 7.34 Cel
Japanese yen 6,495,925 6,427,491 5.45 ne
Korean won 103,466 - 12.33 a
Netherlands guilder 389,865 377,788 7.67 :
New Taiwan dollar 95,280 - 6.36 \ i
Pound sterling 346,425 349,219 11.01 Ji
/ Swiss fraric . 1,559,091 1,501,307 6.35 !
' : |
United States dollar 4,687,463 4,010,322 751 od
“Principal armotints 4. i LEE RP Se A |
outstariding 14,636,488 13,716,585 6.582" od
eo “andy (37,638) 82,280} |
Foe pera S “8! $14,598,850 $13,684,305 , a
4 lg g » ioe SSS a . '
RITY STRUCTURE OF BORROWINGS OUTSTANDING

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

e Yeats Ending

   

Amounts far

 

 

  

A 8 ge 81 December os
1996 $ ssa878 Sea ee
-.1997 eR BOT 1B Te ote
1998
BA99G oe
2000! S43

 

 

+ includes ‘zero €Supon: Doftowings wikich ‘have be
« bosrowitigs mn US dollar equivalents) aires. os!

Agate
1995

 

$126,469."
27,535

  

  
           

= 3 $425,033
“Dovel Sted de, Ss 676,063

$151,746
254,676 ©

    
 

The wwsighted éverage cost of Boriswirbe ‘ilisian

Ds1995

$ (99,3475

(181,596

(278,985 8,2: 203,750
: (193,987 193,84§ 4
3,823,424 ‘ : 10,319,349
(103,466 } - (249,089 140,776

(95,280 } Sake (193,315 ‘ 153,110
925,134 29, 91 : 2,397,307

(86,918) ;

609,624 07,3 i 2,302,132 5
(2,994,955 }

*: Receive Floating Swaj
Japanese yen).

Total.

At 31 Decetnber'1995, the remaining duration ‘of currency swap agreements rom one to ten years,” Approximately 65% of thie cut
receivables and 63% of the Sayables aré due from 31 December 2000 through 31 December 20052... "
The itterest rete swap information is based on ‘interest rates at 31 December 1995. To the ¢
information will change. . iy Le e a res Bs :
Corsis‘s of a currency coupon swap with interest receivable in Atistyalian dollars end interest payable in Japanese y
* Consists of a currency coupon swap with interest receivable in Deutsche mark and interest payable in Japenese yel

.!: See notés to financial stateménts (OCR-8)ASIAN DEVELOPMENT BANK - ORDINARY CAPITAL RESOURCES
STATEMENT OF SUBSCRIPTIONS TO CAPITAL STOCK AND VOTING POWER

31 December 1995

 

Expressed in Thousands of United States Dollars (Note B)

 

 

 

 

 
 
  
  
 
 
 
  
  
  
 
 
        
     
  
     
  
   
  
  

 

         
   
 
 
  

      
   

     

  

  
    
  
 

      
    
     
 
   
   
    
  
   
  
 
  

  

 

SUBSCRIBED CAPITAL VOTING POWER
Number Per Cent Par Value of Shares Number — Per Cent
MEMBERS of Shares of Total Total Callable Paid-in of Votes _ of Total
REGIONAL |
Afghanistan 1,195, 0.041 $ 17,764 $ 12,085 $ 5,678 14,132 0,390 |
Australia 204,740 7.065 3,043,440 2,830,307 213,133 217,677 6,009 |
Bangladesh 36,128 1.247 537,039 499,431 37,608 49,065 1.354 j
Bhutan 110 0.004 1,635 1,323 312 13,047 0.360
Cambodia 875 0.030 13,007 8,845 4,162 13,812 0.381
China, People's Rep. of 228,000 7.868 3,389,197 3,151,790 237,407 240,937 6,651
Cook Islands 47 0.002 699 624 74 12,984 0.358
Fifi s 1,203 0.042 17,882 15,727 2,155 14,140 0.390
. Hong Kong 19,270 0.665 286,447 266,379 20,068 32,207 0.889
India 224,010 7.730 3,329,886 3,096,701 233,186 236,947 6.541
_ Indonesia - 96,350 3.325 1,432,233 1,260,291 171,942 109,287 3.017
‘Japan’. 552,210 19,055 8,208,546 7,633,691 574,855 565,147 | 15.601
Kazaklistan 14,268 0.492 212,092 186,614 25,478 27,205 0.751
Kiribati 71 0.002 1,055 "922 . 134 13,008 =: 0.859
Korea, Rep, of 178,246 6.151 | 2,649,609 2,464,080 185,529 191,183 5.278
 Kuybyz Republic : 0.183... 78,650, . 69,211. 9,439 _» 0.503
“Lao PBR : i © 3,,8,687 "0. 2,948. | 714 0,864
o> Malaysia’. ° 1,432,233. 1,831,925". 100,308 © 3017
“Maldives. ">. PBT 1,962 ) 0,361 ©
. Marshall Islands 699 624 0.358
_ ¢ Micronesia, Fed, States al ZA 1,962 «0.361
vos Mongolia? 6° 1 BORA 2s 3.478 (0.364
a Myaininar ; 143,223 é
2° Nauru Rep. of: 4,055
“es Nepal: “ 38,664
New Zealand § 355 é
Pakistan « 1,065,546.~':
* Papua New Guinea, 21,732:
Philippines: 551,369 °
_- Singapate,, 16, 442.

i ines Dt
Sti Lanka."
. Taipél, China. : “Thailarid
2. Tonga: ~
Tuvalu ce
329, AgL eo

‘A 546. Fes
158, 52

 

       

   

Total Regional Forward). 1,955,880 67.492. $29,073,960 $26,857,470 $2,216,496 2,473,360" 68.979OCR-7

 

 

 

or Pex ‘Cent
28... of Total®:t
i

a

: , on; the Bank;

vel yament, insti

me 5 The Bais onda ohelslioks on
investments and guéyaniees: It finaric

 

“the Bank's upiitipaired Subscribed cap
an “1995, the: total of such loans, equity sat and

: * 1994) of the total subpcribed capita
“8s, defined, : : :

 

 

ASIAN DEVELOPMENT BANK - ORDINARY CAPITAL RESOURCES

NOTES TO FINANCIAL STATEMENTS

31 December 1995 and 31 December 1994

 

NOTE A ~ NATURE OF OPERATIONS AND
LIMITATIONS ON LOANS, GUARANTEES AND EQUITY INVESTMENTS

Nature of Operations

The Asian Development Bank, a development finance
institution, was established in 1966 with its Headquarters
in Manila, Philippines. The Bank and its operations are
governed by the Agreement Establishing the Asian Development Bank (the Charter). Its principal objective is fo help
actelerate ecohomic and social development of its developing member countries in ‘the Asian and Pacific region by
‘providing fifancial and-technijcal assistance: for projects
and programs which: will contribute to’ sustainable econoifii¢ develosment and, social advancement; As of 31
‘Detémber 1995, the Bank is owned by 56 member coun‘tries, 40. colintries from the egion and 16 counitries cab
outside the region,

 

Mobilizing financial resources including cofinancing is ar

inttegral: part ofthe Bank's operational: activities. In addi-:
lone of jointly, administers: on behalf ‘of:
¢ eribers, their agendies’ arid other de- ~
¢ ris, funds restricted for specific’ uses,
whieh include: ‘techinical assistance for borrowels as well as

 

 

 

 

 

 

tions through borr
earnings. : :

& total aroun Peabhanctil of loans,’ equity investmenits’éi a en
ie total of,
id a

I

  

guatantees tnade by the Bank shall notex

 

“surplus; exclusive of the spetial reserve

 

ticle 42, artaiaph 3 ah the Chaitie ‘provides ‘hat equity”
‘nvestmelits shall Hot exceed 10% of the ‘unimpaited actu
ally paid-in capital together with reserves” and surplus,

exclusive of the- special teserve. At $1 December 4995, *

* 1966 dollar. Since 1 Apiil 1978, at which time the
: ‘Amendment to the Atticles of Agreeméit of. the
; tonal Monetary Fund (MF) came into effett,-« curren:

  
 
 
  
  

   
  

such equity investments represented approximately 2.7%
(2.0% ~ 1994) of the paid-in capital, reserves and surplus,
as defined.

NOTE B - SUMMARY OF SIGNIFICANT
ACCOUNTING POLICIES

Functional Currencies and Reporting Currency

The currencies of members are all functional currencies.
The reporting currency is the United States dollar, and the
financial statements are expressed in thousands of current
United States dollars.

Valuation of Capital Stock

The authorized capital stock of the Bank is defined in
Article 4, paragraph 1 of the Charter “in terms of United
States dollars of the weight and fineness in effect’on 31
Januiaty 1966” {the 1966 dollar) and the value of each .
share ig defined as 10,000 1966 dollars. The capital’stock
had historically been translated. into the current: United ,
States dollar (the, Bank's unit of account) on the basis Of its
par value ta terms ‘of gold: From 1973 ‘Ubi 3 ‘March
1978, tHe fate aifived at on this basis was $1:

 
   
  
      
   
 
  

 

av “pat valies: in ferins of gold. Pe

 

» Right (SDR); at the valtie in current United Sta

the IMF, with gach, share

ona giving ‘a Nalue for each share of e Bank's capital
quiivalent to $14, 864.90' ($14,598.5 1994); However, the Bank could decide #6. fix the’ value of each, share

 

vat. $12, 063.51 based.on the 31: March 1978 Bar vale of |.

{ tates sole in terns of gold

sy currencies to the aoe currency geiterally at the ie
_© ¢able’rates of exchange at the end of a reporting period.OCR-8

  
  
   
  
       
  

~ CONTINUED

 

   
   
  

Income and expense amounis are translated for each semi- tion by management of the collectibility of loans outstandmonthly period. generaliy. at the applicable rates of ex- ing. Impairment is: measured based on the present value‘of
_.change at the beginning’ of each period; such practice expected future tash flows discounted at the loan's effec: :

 

*approxitmates.the application ‘of average rates in effect tive interest r On the remaitider of the: private: séctor
during the period: . Translation, adjustments other than portfolio, the Bank thakes a general loan loss provision at,
those‘felating to mmaifhtenance ‘of value ‘of currency holdings a rate approved: by the Board of Directors.
é(see Notés I and:J); are charged or credited to “ ‘Ace
lated translation adjustment harige gains or: loss
currency. transactions ar

 

   
  
    

   
   

   

  
    
  

18 “The Bank vequires its borrowers to abso
exchange risks’ att tribtitable to fluctuations in: the
. the clirrencies which it has disbursed, Tis the policy ’of th
Bank’ to place in non-acérual status’all loans for which~
‘principal, interest or’ other charges até overdue by. sik
months. When loans aré placed in flon-acerual status, ‘th
. related unpaid interest ‘and other, charges aré reversed an
are deducted from loan interest income and other charges
as appropriate: Interest and other charges on non-accruing
loans are included in income only to the extent that pay
ments have actually been received by the Bank. The Bank:
follows a policy of not taking Bart in debi Teschedulin
agreements. m :

 
   

       
 
       
 
   
    
     
    
    
 
     
       

  

 
    

  

considers that its cash. and cash aces are limited tow.
“DUE FROM BANKS

   

   

_ Certain 1994 2 amounts haya tioee! reclassified to'conforir |
to the 1995 presentation.

  
 
 
  
  

 

NOTE c- RESTRICT JONS ON USE OF
or _.CURRENCIES AND DEMAND
- OBHGATIONS OF MEMBERS.

The Bank makes specific provisions for possible losses on»
smpaired loans in which principal or, interest is in arreal
for one year for loans made.to or guaranteed by a member
based on consideration by,the Board of Direc ‘ors, and:
tonths for loans to the private sect based onan

   

2. br Article 24, paragraph 2{i) of the Char
i@ use by the Bank -or by. any / recipient frorn the BankASIAN DEVELOPMENT BANK ~ ORDINARY CAPITAL RESOURCES
i NOTES TO FINANCIAL STATEMENTS

31 December 1995 and 31 December 1994

 

 

of certain currencies may be restricted by members to 1995
payments for goods or services produced and intended for . ;
use in their territories. With respect to the currencies of 36 Amortized Estimated
it (35 ~ 1994) developing member countries, cash in banks __Coot___. __FairValue _
| (due from banks) and demand obligations totalling Due in one year of less $4,514,821,000 $4,516,162,000
$63,071,000, ($62,548,000 - 1994) and $249,241,000 Due after one year
it ($238, 164,000 ~ 1994), respectively, may be, but are not through five years 1,074,074.000 — 1,089,007,000
currently so restricted, Due afler five years
through ten years 453,473,000 463,368,000
i In. agcordance with Article 24, paragraphs 2(i) and Totals $6,042,368,000 068,537,000

 

 

i (i) of the Charter, tw members have restricted the use by
‘ the Bank. or, by any'r ie Bank of their

 
    

 

; clirrehcies to payments | Q 1994
He "their territorie anks. ue ‘fiom. ‘banks), demand : :
Ht. ©.’ obligations and investinents totalling $61, ,000 ($15,000 - Amortized Estimated
-» 1994), $1,000 ($972,000. - 1994). and $3,454,000 Soe, _ Balt Value

Ky restric. Due after one year

   
 
   
   
  
   
     
   
 

      
 
   

 

 

 

Totals og uy 5, <57650,000 ‘

Additional infovenation: velating to investments

‘Currency.

   
  
   

  
 
 
  
  
    
   
     
   
   
    
  

 

 

 

 

 

 

  

 

 
 
 
  

   
 

 

    

   

Aiistréian dollar $ 475,356,000 ° 1995
“Canadian dolar *” 597,805,000
Deutsche mark: 420,780,000 $2,476,506,000
“Hfaian ira, 410,146,000 54,547 “Es 2,502,675,000 |"
Japanese vel: : 405,810,000»: 205,753,000 “2” 27,477,000
“Pound sterling. 8-4, 271,748,000 «280,548,000 5 1,308,000
Swiss frane <)- ) -567,045,000 ;
Uhited States doll: 1,885,684,000 +1,926,164,000
‘ Others : oe" 1,034,168,000 ~ 839,885,000.
Mae d : aaa me 39,116,000
Totals : $6,068,537,000 8,178,766,000 : 10,42:
57,604,000 ~ 26,438,000 |

 

41,066,000 89,006 ‘000 ©

 

cost and ‘estirn

   

“ee The amortiz
“ments. by .

 
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

ee ($2,911,000 ~ * 1394), respectively, have been S0 Dye ivoneyear orless  $4,982,748,000-  $4,980;411,000

 

a wey if : ., through five years : t 677,927,000.
He NVESTMENTS Due after five years ; hed oe :
: through ten years + "46,978,000, °°." 4,881,000

. r
i i : : mee lie : g ern |
Vy : bak . ee : ‘ment and gindeinnestrialeraiiiaed obligations is: as follows: ‘OCR-8

CONTINUED

 

: ', To reduce credit. risk, the Bank is restricted by its Invest» ment Authority to invest in (a} securities which are obliga
Hons of limited class of issuers, primarily government or
gavernmeni-gquaranteed obligations, multilateral banks and
selected. commercial. banks; and (b) exchange-traded derivatives of: such securities.“Exposure to interest rate risk

may be adjusted within defiried bands to reflect changing <

market circumstances. These adjustments ‘ate, made
throught the purchase and: sale: of. bo} ers

 

two currencies in order to recover the ¢ currency converted.
~ The Bank records the covered forward a§ an investment in“:
the underlying currency. A teceivable. is created for the -:

forward contract of the originating currency and a payable
for the: underlying instrument to be converted into the
originating currency’at) maturity. Premiums‘or discoun

~are deferred and: atnortized’as income from investments

over the life of the underlying’ instrument. No covered
forward agreements’ were. outstanding ‘at 31 Decemb
1995 il i Cee :

 

 

   

  

Short sales: Short cele are sales of securities not held

the Bank's t ortfolio at the time of the sale. The Bank ‘faust
purchase ‘the security at a later date‘and bears the risk that
the market value of the security will move adversely be:
tween. the time of the salé and thet iime the secu

1995

Carrying Estimated :
Amounts Fair Value

$12,770,549,000 $12,770,549,000

4,361,351,000 5,176,048.000
359,661,000 359,661,000

$17,491,561,000 $18,306,258,000

+ $11,182,855,000 se vst

4,937,677,000.. 5, 783: 615,000.
344,786,000. “. - 344,786,000."

 

0° $17,281,254,00whe governments with fixed interést 'ralés’(pr
_niade pridk’ 6 duly 1986) were fair valued: using a

: A c ca i t takes “into”.
a account the scheduled cash fds Over the average life, by

: currency,” ‘Of the loairis, and current ‘funding césts for the

" effect. of. 2 aipacted prepayments a

ASIAN DEVELOPMENT BANK - ORDINARY CAPITAL RESOURCES

NOTES TO FINANCIAL STATEMENTS

31 December 1995 and 31 December 1994

 

Prior to 1 duly 1986, the lending rate of the Bank was
based on a mullticurrency fixed lending rate system under
which loans carried interest rates fixed at the time of loan
approval for the entire life of the loans, Effective 1 July
1986, the Bank adopted a multicurrency pool-based variable lending rate system. In addition, in duly 1992, the
Bank introduced a pool-based variable United States dollar
lending system, and in November 1994, a market-| based
variable lending system was made available to financial |
intermediaries in the public sector and in the private sector.

For most loans to the private sector, interest is variable.
Undisbursed loan ceninaliraarite ond an analysis of loans by
borrowing member countries as of 31 December 1995
and 31 December 1994 are shown in OCB-5.

Public Sector Loans

' Loans ‘outaiahiteg to oy Quarariteed, by imeibers or their

governménts with interest rates which vary based ori the
pool -based ‘variable lending rate, system were fair valued
using an entry’ value method. Under this method, fair value.
wag determined based on the terms at which a similar Joan

oe would: currently: bevimade by the Bank t6 a sitnilar bor,
“yower, For suich Iéaiis, fair value approximated the Carty
ces ‘of effective loans: “!

  
 
 

l

 

ing amount. For, undisbin'séd bi
and for loans not. yet: effective;
approximated, fair vale :

the éontractual amount.

 

Loaris outstinding to-or guavan

  

nincipally loans”

 

average life including a factor for administrative costs. The

 

    

The Bank has not suffered any losses of | i

“guaranteed by members or’ their govetriments,

‘a loans during ihe year. See Note 8)

 

  

  
   
 
    
   
    

 
 

 

Private Sector Loans

Loans outstanding to the private sector are not considered
material to the loan portfolio and were fair valued at
carrying amounts.

Four private sector loans were placed in non-accrual status
as of 31 December 1995 (four - 1994). The principal
outstanding at that date was $36,594,000 ($26,046,000
— 1994) of which $3,805,000 ($1,850,000 - 1994) was

-. overdue; Overdue interest and other charges on these

loans toialled $3,611,000 ($2,750,000 - 1994). Placing
these loans in non-accrual status resulted tn a reduction of

: $i, 614, 000 ($3,263,000 - 1994) in income from loans

for the'y year ended 31 December 1995.

Loan ‘Loss Provision

    
   
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
  
  

guaranteed by meinbers. or ‘their, goveinin A
logs provisions have been made against:

 

‘and general provisions were made aga

 

* inforination appertaining to, loans whic are Lbject, fo *
loss proscis as at. 3h Decemt ér 1995 and oh

se
$17,508,572,000 :
> $ 23,233,000 ee
© $ 1,170,000 «|

meg 901,000 “886,000“OCR-8

CONTINUED

 

    
   
     
  
    
        

The changes in the allowance for loan losses during 1995
and 1994 were as follows:

1995 1994 .

  

$ 33,466,000
(1,058,000)
6,132,000

 

Balance ak Janviany
Recovery during the year.’
“, Addition ch

 
     

$ 38,540,000

  
 

8,646,000
29,894,000

38,540,000

   

and 31 December 1994 i is immaterial as.no guarantees, are
expected to be called.

  
      
    
 
   
  
  

  

NOTE F.- _ EQUITY INVESTMENTS

“Corporation Ltd.

$85}650,000 at 31 December. 1995 ($46,906,000 
carrying value.

fair value of guarantees ste Ta at.31 Deseinbér 1995:

The Bank’s equity investments: are nile ts in private enter-.”
prises located in developing member countries and at 31: :
December 1995, included an investment’ of $35,521,000 . -($35,454,000 — 1994) in Asian Fane and Investment.

Undisbursed equity investment. commitments. ‘were

» 1994). Equity investments’ fair value approximates dhe =

NOTE G - PROPERTY, FURNITURE AND
EQUIPMENT

_ In 1991, under the terms of an agreement with the Gov
ernment of the Republic of the Philippines (Government),
the Bank returned the former headquarters’ premises

- which had been provided by the Goverriment, In accord
ance with the agreement as.supplemented by a memoran
dum of understanding, the Bank was’ compensated

$22; 657; 000 or > teturn of these premises. The com
     
  
 
 
   
  
 
 
     

sheet interest rate ‘mismatches arising: ito:
operations. 3

 
   

decrease its cost of borrowing. However, the Bank enters:
into simultaneous currency and/or, interest. rate swaps to. |
fully hedge against the effects of such embedded

derivatives.

The Bank has a potential risk of loss if the swap

__.courterparty. fails to perform its obligations (Gee Note ©).

In order to reduce such. credit risk, the Bank only entersASIAN DEVELOPMENT BANK - ORDINARY CAPITAL RESOURCES

 

NOTES TO FINANCIAL STATEMENTS

31 December 1995 and 31 December 1994 : |

 

 

     
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
  
  
 
  
       
 

 

 

 
 
 
  
 
   
 

   

  
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

into long-term swap transactions with counterparties eligi- As of 31 December 1995 and 31 December 1994, the
ble under the Bank’s swap guidelines. The Bank does not carrying amounts and estimated fair values of borrowings |
anticipale that any of its counterparties will fail to perform and swaps were as follows: a
their obligations under such agreements.
1995 j
‘ Interest rate swaps: Under a typical interest rate swap | | ;
MI agreement used by the Bank, one party agrees to make Carrying Estimated
i Amounts Fair Value
’ periodic payments based on a notional principal amount —oee—:_—_ Oe
| and an interest rate that is fixed at the outset of the Balance sheet
| ‘ agreement. The counterparly agrees to make floating rate financial instruments:
M If payments based on the same notional principal amount. .
‘1, Amounts receivable or payable under the terms of the Borrowings $ 34,598,850,000 $15,832,603,000
Wa ap are atrie over the period to. which the payment Currency swap :
h relates and the related cost or income is jricluded in iriterest 5 a ‘3
| i arid other financial “expenses. The terms of the Bank's receives 4,476,988,0004,780.779,000
Hy EE . interest rate Swep agreements spectical match the terms Currency swap
: bea of particular borrewinds ; ee Powe of payables 5,358,182,000  5,951,218,000
Hy . : i :
WANE Cuitrency: 8 faye inlets typical Satréncy sive agree- . . Unrealized .
L B etit, one party agrees to make periodic paymerits in oné Notional Amount __Gain (Loss) _
Tt “curvency while the counterpatty agrees to make periodic... Striciaiice sheet
“) palymenits in another currency. The payments thay. be fixed.:,.. antl instruments:
. "S) at the outget bf the agreement or vary based on! intefést : ee a
10% fates, A receivable | js created for the periodic payments to... ieterest rat ‘sivas =: $ 1,345,415,000 $ — 34,320,000
* be received and a) payable i is created for the payments to be. : : :
ging inade, Swap premiums. and, discounts are: deferred and:
* | Vatiortized into iniferest and ‘other financial’ experises over: ae
» the life of the underlying instruments, The terms of the:.”
: ay, i on
. The fair value of borrowings outstanding 38 estimated using» +
prevailing market prices’ where .available, “or estimated - :
replacement values wheré market prices were ndt oa
available. ‘ : Cunfency'swap

 

receivables (8 cg 4
: Ouistanding’ curreficy arid interest tate swap ‘agreéinents. SO Yow ee :
are fair valued at the estimated amouit that the Bank “.> “Cufrencyswap. | fo BB ee Bi
would receive or pay to terminate the agreements based payables 2). : 4,976,634,000  5,294,370,000 ’

. Upori market quotes from dealers. one j

   

 

. Unrealized,
Notional Amount —_ Gain (Loss) -:
Foi ial idan a caliceae

 

§ 1,427,183,b00 $ 66,184,009).OCR-8

CONTINUED

 

 

 
  
   
    
  
 

NOTE 1- CAPITAL STOCK, CAPITAL
TRANSFERRED TO ASIAN DEVELOPMENT FUND AND MAINTENANCE OF
VALUE OF CURBENCY HOLDINGS

 

 

Capital, 0

    
  

   
     
      
 
  
  
 

2001 : 9,675,000 - ee LS

 

: z actually | due,

 
 

: vi !
FROM MEMBERS” représent the ag’ egat

Of certain’ member’ currenciés.:. The: séttléin

 

1995... al §

1996 ra oe 79,635,000

1997 - § 79,594,000 > 29. :
1998 Vales 3 69,908,000 20,601,000.

1999 . 63,260,000 © 20,601,000
2000 35,038,000 ~1,173,000

 

Payments in respect of capital subscription instalmenis in E
advance ‘of dué-dates are shown. in the balance’ sheet’
{under the. caption:“ACCOUNTS PAYABLE -AND.<*

OTHER LIABILITIES”) as “Advance payménts on
subscriptions” pending the determination of the’ full value
of such payments based on the rate of exchange to be used
by the Bank as of the date on “which such Payments are

   

 

ital Friveletiag to. Asin i Peleprnent Pund

  
 
 
 

 
 

ceivable ‘resulting: from changes in exchatige rel
ber curtencies. from those previous f
of computing maintenance of valu

 
 
 
 
  
   
    

  
  
 
 
 

amounts is not determinable and, ace
practicable to fair. walue these receivable:

 

Since: 1 “April: 1978, ‘inasmuch as the valuation, of. the

= Bank's capital, stock and the basis of determining possible
» maintenance of value obligations are’ still unde: S
“tion, notional amounts have been calculated Frovisionally

as receivable from or payable: té members in: order ‘to
. .-mMaintain the velue of ‘currency holdings. in’. terms: of. the

- SDR. ‘The. timing of any establishment: and settlement of
. such amounts is uncertain and, accordingly, itis not practi= ¢able to. fair value such receivables and payables: TheASIAN DEVELOPMENT BANK — ORDINARY CAPITAL RESOURCES

NOTES TO FINANCIAL STATEMENTS

31 December 1995 and 31 December 1994

 

 

notional amounts as of 31 December 1995 consisting of
receivables of $652,799,000 (621,581,000 - 1994)
and payables of $334,610,000 ($357,691,000 - 1994)
consist of (a) the increase of $531,633,000
($475,317 ,000 - 1994) in amounts required to maintain
the value of currency holdings to the extent of matured and
paid capital subscriptions due to the increase in the value
of the SDR in relation to the United States dollar during

the period from 1 April 1978 to 31 December 1995 and .

(b) the net increase of $213,444,000. ($211,427,000 1994) in'thé value pf such currency holdings in relation to
the United States dollar during the same périod.
NOTE J = ORDINARY RESERVE AND NET
v4. INCOME, SPECIAL RESERVE AND

ce ey py SURPLUS ee 3

‘ Ordinary Reserie and Net Income’
sab Undér thesprovisions of Article 40'-of the, Charter, the

-'' the net ifjcome shall be allocated, after making provision
. for reserves, to surplus and what part, if arly, shall be

Surplus, respectively.

The restatement of the capital stock for purposes of these
financial statements on the basis of the SDR instead of the

‘capital subscriptions caused by the change. during the
States dollar not allocated to members as notional mainte
of the Board of Directorsy::'s..""
Special Reserve
The Spedial Réserve fepiesents ¢ mami

os guatantee fees on guarantees set as
“17 of the Charter. Special Reserve-as:

an 2 '»- Theaverage yield on. the loan porifoli
Board of Governors shall determine annually what part of - :

" Gistributed to, the members. During 1995 and 1994, Het, .

, income after appropriation, of guarantee fees to Special '

\ Reserve for the years ended 31 ; December 1995 and 31.
December 1994, ‘respectively, were allocated to. the Ordinary Reserve, except for $81,000,000: and»

~ $70,000,000 ($70,000,000'and nil = 1994), which’ was: ’
allocated to the Technical’ Assistarice, Special Fund’ and: 4

 

1966 dollar (see Note B) resulted in a net charge of *
. $9,087,000 to the Ordinary Reserve duririg’ the: year:
ended 31 December 1995 ($29,627,000 - 1994). That «», .
charge is the increase in the value of the matured and paid’ ~

periéd in the value of the SDR in relation’ to the United =,

 

nance of value adjustments in accordance with resclutions”

  
   
 
  
 
  

pally of government and government-guaranteed obligations and are included under the heading “INVEST- °
MENTS”. For the year ended 31 December 1995, guarantee fees amounting to $395,000 ($373,000 - 1994)
were appropriated to Special Reserve. The commission
charged on loans was discontinued in 1986.

|
|
1
'
t
t
a

Surplus

During 1995, the Board of Governors allocated
$70,000,000 {nil - 1994) out of 1994 net income after
appropriation of guarantee fees to the Special Reserve.
Surplus represents funds for future use to be determined by
the Board of Governors.

NOTE K = INCOME.AND EXPENSES... a

 
 
        
  
  
 
  
  
 
 
   
  
 
  
 

Total ihcome from loans for the year ent ded
1995 was $1,312,828,000 ($1,187,51

  

>

7.10% (7.71% = 1994}.
Total inedirie from. investments for the year nded 31
December 1995 was $418,678,000 ($29 099,000 eo
1.994). The armualized rate of refitrn on the average irivest:
menis hele dutirig the year, based on the portlolic held at
“the beginning and end’ of éach month, excluding
© tnrealized gains and Iésées, was 6,86% (4.87% = 1994), If
- unféalized gains and losses wete included, the annualized .
yate‘of réturn would have been 7:49% (4.02% 1994

 

 

» Total inteiest expense. ineutred for the year, end
Jécember 1995; amounted © to), $940
{$860;299,000. +1994). alee ah

 

 

 

«Other fitianei
rowihgs' issuance’ costs“ and “other expens:
$18,178,000 ($18,068,000 2 1994). and chatges whi 0:
~: tepresent the difference between reacquisition’ price atid.”
© et carrying ariount of borrowings extinguished: prior’ to,
maturity of $4,241,000 (nil= 1994): a a

        
 
   
  
 

Adininistrative expenses (other than those appértaining
ordinary operations and special operations) for
‘ended’ 3.1 Dacenibet.1995 were apportioned::

  

 

ne : to the Humber of loans and equity’
ved during thé year: Of the total admin:

 

      

 

 

of $191,158,000. $186;218,000,-. 4_ OCR-8

CONTINUED

 

   

ingly charged to the'Asian Development Fund.

From October 1994 to: 18 January: 1995; the Bani
offered: special benefits. to eligible: staff who elected
esign from, the Bank before their’ ‘normal retirement dat
“Administrative expenses for'1995 indlude the $6,430,000

 

  
 
 
  
  

eligible § service, The Plan assets. are Segregated and held i
trust and’ are not included in’ the accompanying balance

borne by the Plan.

covered by the participants’ contributions.

included ‘in administrative: expenses for the respective

'1994), $82,855,000 ($75,485,000 = 1994) was accord
   

a, ‘Service Gosts1 benatis

-($2,550,000.— 1994) cost of benefits: for staff members

Unrecognized p 6,044,000
Untets (70,408,000)

sheet: The cosis ot administering the Plati are‘absorbed by:
the Bank, except for fees paid to the investment managers"
and related charges. including custodian ni feee which are”

Participants are 2 Yeauired to. contribute 9.1/3%-of their
remuneration to the Plan and’ may also make voluntary —
contributions. The Bank's contribution is determined ata s
rate sufficient: to cover that part of the costs of the Plan not.

* 1994): The. effect of projected compensatio
“calculated based of a Scale that’ provides,
«rate of salary increase depending on’ age beginning with

Net periodic pension cost for the years ended 31 Decem- =

return on-assets was 8% (8% — 1994)
ber 1995 and 31. December. 1994, which have beens ° 2 cea

years, consisted-of the following components:

 

  
    
  

   
    
 
 
  
 

1995 1998

 

 
 
 

~ $16,270,000
29,216,000
(73,392,000)

44,041,000

$ 16,135,000

achicivig vested t
~$318,001,000-.

436,568,000
56,749,000
(8,847,000)

    
 

$ (16,462,000)

  
   
    
   
  
  
 

  

the actuarial present”.
on was: Lh: (8% a
levels. was
a decreasing

  

value of the projected benefit oblige

 

 

13% (14% = 1994) at age 21 and decteasing to.4.50%
(5.50% — 1994) atage 59. The exper long+ term yate of

 

  

 

 

 

169hae \Net periodic postretirmenit

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

ASIAN DEVELOPMENT BANK - ORDINARY CAPITAL RESOURCES

NOTES TO FINANCIAL STATEMENTS

31 December 1995 and 31 December 1994

 

NOTE M —POSTRETIREMENT MEDICAL
BENEFITS PLAN

In 1993, the Bank adopted a cost-sharing plan for retirees
medical insurance premiums. Under the plan, the Bank is
obligated to pay 80% of the Group Medical Insurance Plan
premiums for retirees, including retired members of the
Board of Directors, and their eligible dependents who
elected to participate. The cost-sharing plan is currently
unfunded.

Generally accepted accounting principles require an
actuarially determined assessment of the periodic cost of
postretirement medical benefits. Net periodic posttelirernent medical benefit cost for the years ended 31

been included in adrtiinistrative expenses for the respective
years, consisted of the following components:

Interest cost ori accumulated
postrétirement medical

*. benefit obligatidn.’ .' ° .
‘Net arfivitization and deferral

2,580,000
1,742,000

  

“i+ 2,409,001

benefit cost “$7,872,000 
<The following’ table sets forth ‘thé “plan
» December 1995 and 31 Deceinber 1994:

  

    

  
 

 

 

Unrecogriized net obligation at

. transition, ‘net of atMortization 22,160,000
Unretognized et gain : (15,115,000)
Accrued poatrati +
“Benefit cost.

 

   

December 1995 abd’ 31.December 1994, which have .

1995 1994. *
Service costs ~ benefits .
éarned for the year « $3,050,000 . $3,581,000"

2;680,0005 <. AS

‘status at 31

“Other liabilities

1995 hy
i Ketiinulated posttetirément :
». medical benefit’ obligation: Hee
* Retirees. i 5 * $ 7,231,000 $ © :7,026,000-.,
In-service ‘participarits” 22,537,000 : 359,000 :
‘. -Totals., 29,768,000 29,385,000:
Baie valid of ‘plan assets- A ! = ‘
: “Acéumilated obligation in *
excess of plan assets (29,768,000)

The accumulated postretirement medical benefit obligation
was determined using medical cost trend rate of 7% (8% 1994). Increasing the medical cost trend rate by 1% would
increase the accumulated postretirement medical benefit
obligation as of 31 December 1995 by $2,789,000
{$3,135,000 - 1994) and the net periodic postretirement
benefit cost by $557,000 ($631,000 - 1994) for the year
then ended. The weighted average discount rate used in
determining the accumulated postretirement medical benefit
obligation was 7% (8% - 1994).

NOTE N ~ FAIR VALUE OF FINANCIAL
INSTRUMENTS

The carrying amounts and estimated fair values of the

Bank's significant financial instruments as of 31 December
1995 and 31 December 1994 are summarized as follows:

1995

Estimated
Fair Value

Carrying
oc Tats Amounts
On:balance sheet
* financial instruments:

    
    
  
 
 
 
   
   
  

"5" $  6,042,368,000 $ 6,068,537,000
17,491,561,000 18,306,258,000
163,783,000

(Note D) ae
janding (Note 5)

 

 

14,598,850,000 15,832,603,000

 
  
  
    
 

. Currericy swap,
+” payables (Note H)

§,358,182,000 5,951,218,000
.. Short sales (Note D) - 
 

' Notional/Contract Unrealized

 

258,305,000 =

 

    

 

 

 

 

 

   

 

 

 

163,783,000 |

4,476,988,000 4,730,779,000

 

Gain (Loss) 5

Amount
- $ - 3
9,725,000 1,345,415,000 34,320,000“OCR-8

CONTINUED

 

   

 

Tears citstadine
Equity investments.

  

456,184,000) :

Guaiatiee N (Note:E) ©

Additional fair value information: “including methods used
‘to estimate certain. values, is inc luded in the notes refer-'
"enced in the above table.” ' 1 REE i

Fair value of a- financial deat detined as the
amount at which the instrument could be exchanged in a

current transaction between wil ling parties, other than i ina
forced or liquidation sale.

The fair value of financial instruments that are short term,
approximates their carrying amounts.

Hf available, quoted market “valiies are iised to determine
fair values. Financial instruments for which market‘quotations are not readily available are valued using methédologies and assumptions which necessarily require. the use of
‘subjective’ j

 

1995

$28.078,000
52,177,000
83,697,000

 

 

responsibilities ‘of 2 Be “under. these
range. from project processing to ee i i

2S Special le and ‘funds administered by. the Bank.on

behaif of the donors are not included in the assets of |OCR-8 —

 

ASIAN DEVELOPMENT BANK - ORDINARY CAPITAL RESOURCES

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

    
   

        
 
    
   

 

tt NOTES TO FINANCIAL STATEMENTS i
| |
|
' 31 December 1995 and 31 December 1994 '
; i
: ordinary capital resources. The breakdown of the total of 1994
such funds together with the funds of the special operations as of 31 December 1995 and 31 December 1994 Total Net No. of
~ Assets Funds |
was as follows: ee
it, Special Funds
' 1995 Asian Development Fund $19,521,101,000 1 {
\ Technical Assistance Special Fund 128,139,000 1 |
| Total Net No. of Japan Special Fund 332,234,000 1 a
| Assets Funds Sa ea
Sub-totals 19,981,474,000 3 me
Special Funds TOT :
r Asian Development Fund $20,379,747,000 af Trust Funds
elke Technical Assistance Special Fund 180,127,000 1 Funds administered by the Bank 29,550,000 18
WL dapan Special Fund © 359,244,000 I Funds not administered
' pee ont we by the Bank 30,771,000 1
{ i Sub-totals ee : 20,919,118,000 3 = ——
j Ce Beet ee Sub-totals . 60,321,000 19
“Trust Funds ss a
: Funds administered by. the Baril 29,887,000 16 Totals $20,041,795,000.. - 22
AWD Funds not administered © ‘ SEES
HE dy the Bankes! . 26,766,000 1 eg
i Forester During the year ended 31 December 1995, a total, of
y Sub-total: ,053,! 17 IDEA:
eee. See $814,000 ($409,000 ~ 1994) was recelvied as compénsa
} $20,975,771,000 20 | tion for administering projects/prograins’ undef Trust. |
Se Funds, The, airiount, has beet included in “iicome from |
*'s* Other Sources”. ; — atDeloitte
Touche Lip

INDEPENDENT AUDITORS’ REPORT

sian’ Development Bank:. ADF
ASIAN DEVELOPMENT BANK - ASIAN DEVELOPMENT FUND
BALANCE SHEET

31 December 1995 and 31 December 1994

~ Expressed in Thousands of United States Dollars {Note B) .

 

ASSETS

 
  

3995 Le 1994

 

 
 
  
 

“ DUE FROM BANKS (Note:B) ».

71,154
346,683

 

417,837 i

12,309,768
1,936 12,307,832

8,350
32,868

 

41,218 »

7,627,022

  
   

‘Contd Resources (Note By $18,394,187.

   
 

$19,039,459

  

SetAside Resources (Note 70,771 ‘ante 69/503"
1,342 &) E1270
19,111,572 18,464,960

  

«Advance payments on contributions {ADF-5)

    
 

  

213,166 76,284."
- Uniealized investrnent holding gains (losses) (Notes 879 (2,869)
106,359 13;218

**, Accumulated translation ‘adjustments (Note B)
Accumulated surplus (ADF-2).

 
  

  
  
 

947,771 20,379,747 °°. 869,508". 191521101

 

 

TOTALS $20,400,170 © * | $19,591,731

 

 

nancial statement

 

  

ie notesADF-2

 

 

| ASIAN DEVELOPMENT BANK - ASIAN DEVELOPMENT FUND
STATEMENT OF OPERATIONS AND ACCUMULATED SURPLUS
For the Years Ended 31 December 1995 and 31 December 1994

Expressed in Thousands of United States Dollars (Note B) oe]

 

 

 

 

 

 

1995 1994
REVENUE
: From loans (Notes B and D) $125,399 $107,075
I From investments (Notes B and C)
Interest $34,805 $29,855
! Net gain (loss) on sales 889 35,694 (230) 29,625
i From other sources — net 496 $ 161,589 581 $ 137,281
\ EXPENSES
i a Administrative expenses (Note F) 82,863 75,519
| _ Provision for losses (Notes B and D) 463 83,326 824 76,343
I EXCESS OF REVENUE OVER EXPENSES - eee
= NET INCOME > 78,263 60,938
ACCUMULATED SURPLUS AT BEGINNING . —
| OF THE YEAR ~ 869,508 . 808,570

       

ACCUMULATED SURPLUS AT END
‘» OF THE-YEARADF-3

  
  
  
 
 
  
  
  
 
 
  
   

ASIAN DEVELOPMENT BANK - ASIAN DEVELOPMENT FUND

STATEMENT OF CASH FLOWS

 

.For the Years Ended 31 December 1995 and 31 Deceniber, 1994

   

 

 

 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
   
  

1995

$ 102,727
33,956
496
(86,783)

50,396

140,087
550,138
3,585,103
(4,061,290)
122,537
(4,124,610)

a
(788,035)

     
  
 
 
 
  
  
  
  
  
   
 
  

681,054
3,515

36,975
721,544
2,300
(13,795)
18,341"
4,546

 
 

—— of revenue over xpenses ~ net come 78,263
Adj justments'to reconcile excess of revenue over |’
expenses ~ net income to net cash provided by

" operating activities:;

 
   

  
   
 

Be (4,292)

   
        
 
  

 

       
   
 

  

    

 

Accrued revenue on investments and loans (4,543) ~ $e
~: Accrued administrative expenses L (3,920) = af? (12,009): <.
Charges capitalized » (18,978) 3.2: (17,914)
Provision for losses 463 foo 824" ©
Other = net’. (889) 2S 230.
"Net Cash Provided by Dpetating Activities 50,396 => $27,777

 

53 ($1,254,452 ~ 1994) were -eceived fromASIAN DEVELOPMENT BANK - ASIAN DEVELOPMENT FUND

SUMMARY STATEMENT OF LOANS

31 December 1995 and 31 December 1994

Expressed in Thousands of United States Dollars (Note B)

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

  

 

  
  
 

 

 
 

 

 

 

 
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Undisbursed Loans
Borrowers/Guarantors! Loans Balances of Not Yet Total Per Cent of
Outstanding” Effective Loans” Effective” Loans Total Loans
Afghanistan $ 33,233 $ - - $ 33,233 0.18
Bangladesh 3,709,472 1,092,680 151,521 4,953,673 26,68
Bhutan 33,053 10,649 7,149 50,851 0.27
Cambodia 53,076 44,288 43,535 140,899 0.76
Cook Islands 13,623 3,337 2,939 19,899 0.11
Indonesia 688,051 178,322 25,759 892,132 4.80
Kazakhstan - 20,026 - 20,026 0.11
Kiribati ® 3,966 - - 3,966 0.02
Kyrgyz Republic 32,436 6,245 39,784 78,465 0.42
LaoPDR  ° 303,100 201,230 79,679 584,009 3.15
Maldives 26,418 11,523 - 37,941 0.20
Marshall Islands... 5,098 18,136 9,011 32,245 0.17
Micréngsia, Fed. States of 344. 6,541 - 6,885 0.04
Mongolia 39° 111,151 . 147,512 - 258,663 1,39
Myanmar °: 535,470 48,537 - 584,007 “3.15
Nepal - 846,559 | 258,264 38,127 1,142,950 6.16
_ Pakistart: 3,257,125 1,761,423 381,258 5,399,806 29.09
Pajstia New Guna 289,343 67,134): =" “356,477 1.92
, Philippines * 777,833 312,291 40,543 1,130,667)" 6,09
Solomon Islands 38,837 = Sle eth 7 BB BBR Ee OS O21
Si Daria Ay 274,179 492,360 140,299 127
Thailand * 77,200 vis =
Tonga’ 25,506 14,892°* 3,618
Vaniatu 17,337 3,782. wt
Viet Nain T1657 *: 395,897" 194,830
Western Sainoa., 85, 704 3,035." : teh ess
BALANCES 31 Decesnber 1985" 12, 309, 768 * 5,097,604. 1,158,052":
~ Allowance for posse ‘esses (h 936)
¢, NET BALANCES ~ 31 Déceimbet 1995 $12, 307 882 $5;097,604 -'
BALANCE’ ; 31 Deceriber 1994" $11, 356, 790 ~$ 5,168,866:
ia Allowance fot ossible lasses , 473) ES ‘ Ss
NET BALANCES - 31 Deceinber 199431, 358, V7 $5,168,566 “$821,874: 817,345,757:

 

i beaks ih than those made ditectly is) > haember or 6 its c
dector ammounting to $17,533. ($17,680 - 1994).
k Loans are e general levied a’service charge on, amounis

178

 

 

 

: isbuised and Standing at the tate of 19 per annum.”

  
 

 

; have been guaranteed by the member with the exception of loans to thé private~~ ADE-4

 

 
 
 
    
   
     
      
    
  
   
   
    
    
  

 

MATURITY OF EFFECTIVE LOANS

 

 

  
 
   

Twelve Months, isl. Five Years

‘Exiding 31 December: 0 Ending 31 December Amounts

199 “2,091,674

i __- 2,803,380
i 3,503,328
~~ 3iag 814
2,761,692
1,268,018)

  
 

870.

1995

  
  
  
  
  
  
   
 

 
 
  
  
  
  
  
  
   
  

$339,162
103,349
86,342
734,414
82,928

6,958,333
327,229
26,994
78,849
314,614

787,836 43,689
64,764 © 73.931
384,245 173,443

171,652 1,557,994

$12,309,768

  

 

  
  

3. Loans negotiated before 1 January 198:
} Drawing Rights {SDR} ‘or the purpose of commitmer
eichange rates as’ of the ent. TECHNICAL; ASSISTANCE
SPECIAL UNE

   

 
  
 
 
     

 

 

 

   

 

i ADF-5
i
| ASIAN DEVELOPMENT BANK ~ ASIAN DEVELOPMENT FUND
ae STATEMENT OF RESOURCES
tt
Le 31 December 1995
Expressed in Thousands of United States Dollars (Note B)
‘ Effective
Amounis Committed! Amounts
| Amounts Not Yet Amounts
ty Committed AtExchange At31Dec.1995 Available Available
During Rates Per Exchange for Loan for Loan Amounts Amounis
1995 Resolutions Rates Commitments Commitments Received Receivable
i CONTRIBUTED RESOURCES
i Australia $ - $ 964,302 $ 824,621 §$ -~ $ 824,621 $ 824,621 $ a Austria 7 121,216 174,812 15,314 159,498 159,498 mi
Belgium - 119,116 155,736 12,848 142,888 142,888 Canada - 1,154,360 1,029,341 101,928 927,413 927,413 Derimark - 130,199 162,642 - 162,642 162,642 Finland - 82,734 86,575 .o- 86,575 86,575 _ France - 691,755 831,782 90,309 741,473 741,473 ~
Gerthariy “ 955,427 1,368,059 113,694 4,254,365 1,254,365 Hong Kong - 4,880 4,880 - 4,880 4,880 .. Indonesia, - 4,960 4,960 - 4,960 4,960, Italy - 419,850." 326,291 = 326,291 326,291 =
_ dapan - 5)422,521°%. 10,549,428 = 10,549,428 10,549, ann al
: 1) Korea, Rep, of o ‘22,900. 22,900 + 1 22,900 +: Nauru, Rep. of - 1,933 - 1,933... 785,. 1,148 =
~ Netherlands = 347,887 497,679 .. a0", 497,679 =
New. Zealand = 4T, 928 43,302 . = 43,302 ~
_ Norway = 8 110,870, = 110,870 :
* Spain», ae 95, 426° 10,662: 84,764
i> Sweden. ve = 185,594: . e. 185,594 ©
“, Switzerland .! 4 (281,286; 24,398 256,888
£ » Taipel,China = 16,500:"*: . 16,500:
Soe Turkey ; a “94266. 18,307... 65,959
i ° United Kingdom 5 = per be B88 B29 8% 0 52,519 480,910
“4 United States... Sa Bi 624, 28 2,594 928 6° 437,017 2,087,911
Pt =) 4a 33ais9 19,917,240. 87,781 19,030,459. 19
SELASIDE RESOURCES oe Sage fees
Weta G) - 70,771. = 70,771
| TRANSFERS FROM a

 

: a TOTALS:

 

 

 

 

 

 

naman

 

 

am soar ipte bye rane ar a

!
i
|
i)
\
'
i
t
t
1
i
1ADE-6

ASIAN DEVELOPMENT BANK - ASIAN DEVELOPMENT FUND

. NOTES TO FINANCIAL STATEMENTS

 

* 31 December 1995 and 31 December 1994 CONTINUED | °
| NOTE A - NATURE OF OPERATIONS Investments
The Asian Development Fund (the Fund) was established All investment securities held by the Bank are Sombie

     

 

on 28 dune 1974 to carry out more effectively the special " by management to be available for sale and, are reported at:
operations of the Bank’ by ‘providing resources on .estimated fair value, with unréalized gains’ and losses ex:
concessional terms which.are made. available almost excl cluded ‘from reverie’ and’ reported: in “UNEXPENDED,

 

: lated f for each semis monthly pad geneva at the’ ap:

ble rates of éxchange at the begirining of each} ‘period:

’ practice ‘approximates the’ application of average tates ir

effect during the period. Translation adjustments relating to
set-aside resources (see Note G) are recorded -as notional
amounts receivable from or payable to Ordinary Capital
Resources. Other translation adjustments, are charged or

- eredited ‘to “Accumulated. translation adjustments”.
.Exchange gains or losses on currency transactions among: =

functional currencies are included i in revenue.

 

BALANCES AND CAPITAL”. stunted f ‘i “value derier.

 

- arrears for one year hed joans made to or guavant sd bya
member based on consideration by the Board'of D ectérs;
and six moriths for loans to the private séctor based onan
evaluation by. management of thé collectibility. of loans

~ outstanding. Impairmerit is measured based on thé present

value of expected future. cash flows discounted at the loan’s

. effective interest rate. On the remainder. of ‘the ‘private’

sector portfolio, the Bank makes a general loan loss provi
: ‘sion at a rate approved by the Board of Directors.ibe
I
|
he
t

   

“NOTE C= INVESTMENTS °

 

ASIAN DEVELOPMENT BANK - ASIAN DEVELOPMENT FUND
NOTES TO FINANCIAL STATEMENTS

31 December 1995 and 31 December 1994

 

 

Contributed Resources Currency 1995 1994
Contributions by member countries are included in the Australian dollar $ 47,437,000 $ 40,206,000
financial statements as amounts committed from the date Canadian dollar 18,866,000 25,797,000
Instruments of Contribution are deposited and related for- Deutsche mark 48,464,000 41,261,000
malities are completed. Italian lira 12,993,000 17,673,000
Japanese yen 104,114,000 213,836,000
Contributions are generally paid or to be paid in the Netherlands guilder 137,000 11,613,000
currency of the contributor either in cash or notes. Pound sterling 65,401,000 58 150,000
Accounting Beumates _ United States dollar 89,997,000 106,451,000
ecounking Others 22,428,000 99,056,000

The preparation of financial statements in conformity with
generally accepted accounting principles requires management to make estifnates and assumptions that affect the
reported amounts of assets and liabilities as at the end of
the year and thé reported amounts of income ahd expenses during the’ year. The actisal results could differ from
“those ‘estimates. i i :

Totals

 

17,837,000 $614,043,000

 

The amortized, cost and estimated fair value of the invest
ments. by contractual maturity at 81, December,1995 and
31 December 1994 wiere as follows: :

'

 

 

 
  

 
 
  
 

 
  
  
       
   
 
 
 
     
 

Statement of Cash Flows 1998
vest ee eee to Moe igh ate ; on . Amortized Estimated
f the statement of cash flows, the Fund ‘ neg le Cost ° Fair ahi
* iders' that ‘its: cash and ‘cash equivalents are limited fo ana ghee ee eo
: “DUE FROM BAI Pa ie ee Al ms AES in Due'in one year or less. +, $366,659,000 $366,706,000
a? ve », Due after one year ;
Reglassifications je through five years 50,299,000 51,131,000
’ Certain ‘1994’ amounts have | 1 reclassified t6 Confort ; stale see \ $416,958,000  $417,837,000 =

  

to the 1995 presentation. :

The currency compositions of the investment portfolié as.
af 31 December 1995 ‘and 31: December 1994. were as’.

follows:

      
    
    

 
 

. Bue th,one year or ese $544,$82,000°
Due after one year.’ :
“through five years’:

 

 

$12,000“ADE-6

  
 
  

CONTINUED

 

     
  

Additional information relating ‘to investments in goverhmeni and government: guaranteed obligatio: is as
follows: ‘ * :

Undisbursed loan commitments and an analysis of loans by
countries as of 31 December 1995 and 31 December
1994 are shown in ADF-4.

     
 
 
 
 
 
      
    
  

The principal amiount' outstanding of loans placed in non~ accrual status as of 31. December 1995 was. $33,800,000
($33,903,000 1994) of which..$6,173,000
overdue. Overdue charges on
58, f08 ($1, 115; 000: = 1904

 

      
  
   
 
 

    
   
 
  

   
   
   
 

. $70,275,006

71,184,000
889,000

10,000

Amortized cost:
Estimated fair valu
Gross'unrealized g

     

3,748,000
550,138,000 =
935,000

 
       
    
 

eo le retum on its investm:

 

 
  

Nore D- LOANS AND LOAN LOSS PR VISION

  

° Loans are fair valued using an entry value. metho . Vader
this method, fair value is‘ determined based on the terms at : visions", $12.303,098,000

 
   

 
 
   

      

_” which a’similar loan would curréntly be made by the Bank” ~~ .Total leans subject to
~ to a’ similar borrower. Such. terms generally. include a’... “specific loss provisions 6,670,000
setvice charge of 1 percent anda final maturity of about, 402-0" : rr
years. For such loans, fair value approximates the carrying .-. -=* Total loans - $12,309,768,000 $11,356;:790,000

amount, The ‘estimated fair value of loans is is not affected by: =
credit risks because the amount of any such adjustment is
_Tiot considered to have. a:material effect based’ on’ the
Bank's experience with its borrowers.” :

 

   

 

 

“183NOTES TO FINANCIAL STATEMENTS

 

31 December 1995 and 31 December 1994

ASIAN DEVELOPMENT BANK ~ ASIAN DEVELOPMENT FUND

 

 
 
  
  
   
  
 
  
     
    
  
 
   
  
  
      
  
  
   
 

1995 1994
Average amount of loans
subject to specific loss
{ provisions $7,383,000 $6,333,000
‘ Related service charges
recognized on such
loans $ 73,000 $ 67,000
Cash received on related
service charges on
such loans. $ 69,000 $ 67,000

, The ‘changes i in the allowance for loan lossés during 1995
and 1994 were as follows:

 

1995
A Balad ~ trad © $1,473,000 9: $ 649,000
‘ Adon dri he yak 463,000 °~".‘: 824,000

   

“5 $1,067,000 .”
869,000

 

 
 
 
 

 
 

‘ 1,936,000

 

 

  

bearing. and,. subject to certain restrictions imposed by
‘applicable Board of Governors’ ‘resolutions, encashable a
the Bank at pat upon demand.: : i

 
 
  
 
 
 
    
     
  
      
   
   

 

 

* Bver the eight-year Peaflod eee 31 ‘Deceinbér 2003:

eee Notes of contitbators. aie fair
“* method . whereby. fair. value,
“terms: at which notes are cuittently. being
contributors, O basis, fair Solis of out

 

  
  
     

ise _

1,473,000:

Notes of contributors are’ non-négotiable, non-interest>

The Bank currently expectd thle ‘he notes outstading at"
3h Decernbey 1995 will be encashed in varying amounts

NOTE F - ADMINISTRATIVE EXPENSES AND
ADMINISTRATION CHARGE

Administrative expenses include an administration charge. amounting to $82,855,000 ($75,485,000 - 1994). The...
charge represenis an apportionment of all administrative ;
expenses of the Bank (other than those appertaining
directly to ordinary operations and special operations)
based'on the number of loans and equity investments
approved for the year.

NOTE G ~ SET-ASIDE RESOURCES

Pursuant to the provisions of Aiticle 19, paredraih 10) of
the Articles of Agreement Establishing the Asian Develop: ‘
‘ment Bank (the Charter), the Board of Govemors has .
authorized the’ selting aside of 10% of thew se :
: “paid-in? capital paid by members pursuant, i ;
i pehigiagh 2la)-of the Charter and of the conver ible cur bn
_ recy. portion paid: by members pursuant to Article 6.
“paragraph, 2(b) of the Charter.a8 of 28. April 1973, ‘to be.
a used asa Batt of the Special Finds of the Bank: The capital,
red fr ‘

   
 

   

 

is “enti aii
terms of United St ats

 

“par value in terms’ of mS ak Fro
1978, the Fate arrived at on this be

   

: ; Amendment to the Articles of Agieement of ‘the Ini era!
"tional Monetary Fund (IMF) came into effect, currencies no
jonger have par valisés i in terms'of gold. Pending the Bank's.
~- selection of the appr ropriaté. successor to the 1966 dollar,
the Set-Aside Resources has been valued for purposes’ of

 

ig Right (SDR), at the value in current United:
computed by the IMF. As.of 31 Décemb

 

v was $1.48649.($1.45985 ~ 1994), On thi

the capital stock of the, Bank as"

 

 

he accompanying fisancial. statements in terms of the

 

 
 
    
   
  

DR ‘in teins « ‘of the current United’.

R sources aimounted *to'$70,771;000° =ST ADE-6

 

 

a 31 December ‘1998 ‘ott “béen valued. ‘in- terms “of”

2,068. 50 -per share, Sei-Aside Resources would ‘have

   

 

 

If available, quoted market values are-used fo deierntine fair ,
values, Financial instrumenis for which market quotations

are not feacily available are valued using thethodologies" yesults:of its operations and its cash flows for the years then.

  

Deloitte &
Touche Lup

AN

INDEPENDENT AUDITORS’ REPORT

Asian Development Bank:

We have audited the following financial statements of the Asian Development Bank —
Fund (TASF):

TASF-1 Balance Sheet, 31 December 1995 and 31 December 1994

San Francisco, California

Technical Assistance Special

TASF-2 Statement of Operations and Changes in Net Assets for the Years Ended

31 December 1995 and 31 December 1994

TASF-8 Statement of Cash Flows for the Years Ended
31 December 1995 and 31 December 1994

TASF-4 Statement of Resources, 31 December 1995

TASF-5 ‘ Summary Statement of Services to Member Countries
; for the Year Ended 31 December 1995

“TASE-6 . Notes to Financial Statements, 31 December 1995 and
: 31 December 1994"

These financial Statements are ‘the-responsibilltiy of the Barik’s managetnent. Our responsibility is to express an

 

" gpinion of these financial statements. based on our audits.

 
 
 
 
 
  
   
  

z 156 incliides assessing thé aeédunting principles used a1
evaliiating ihe overall financial statement présentatior

  

 

 

| statements present fairly, inal
Assistante Spécial Fund at 31 Deceml
ey din con! ormity i

In owt opi $f
! Development Bank ~ Techn

  
 

 

rinciples

 
  
 
 

‘audits accordance with generally accepted auditing ‘standards. Those standards require that wey
¢ nable assurance about whether the financial statements are free of material '
Judes éxarnining, on a test basis, evidence. supporting the amounts and disclosures inthe
ind significant estimates iad

belive th tour auditsTASF-1

- ASIAN DEVELOPMENT BANK ~ TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE SPECIAL FUND
“\: BALANCE SHEET
31 December 1995 and 31 December 1994

Expressed in Thousands of United States Dollars {Noite B}

 

 

 

 

$ 17,259
247,103 264,362

2,394

118
1,408
22,625

$282,402

844
101,431

180,127

$282,402 °°ASIAN DEVELOPMENT BANK - TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE SPECIAL FUND
STATEMENT OF OPERATIONS AND CHANGES IN NET ASSETS
For the Years Ended 31 December 1995 and 31 December 1994

Expressed in Thousands of United States Dollars (Note B)

 

 

1995 1994

 

CHANGES IN UNRESTRICTED NET ASSETS

4 CONTRIBUTIONS (TASF-4) (Notes B and D) $ 81,000 $ 94,221
He, REVENUE

Wd From investments (Notes B and C)

Interest , $ 7,242 $ 2,163
Unrealized investment holding gains 694 Net loss on sales (3) (3)

From other sources ~ net (Note E) 265 8,198 677

 

 

Totals 89,198

_. EXPENSES
Services to member countries TASES) (Note B) 47,904
Administrative expenses tie 2

 

covrnistrions AND REVENUE IN EXCESS OF EXPENSES 41,292
EXCHANGE Gains - et (Note B) 10,420 *
INCREASE N UNRESTRICTED NET ASSETS: sage 51,712 |

 

 

 

“ CHANGES IN TEMPORARILY RESTRICTED NET Assets

 

 

_ CONTRIBUTIONS (TASF-4) (Notes B and D)
EXCHANGE GAINS nét (Note B) :

 

INCREASE IN TEMPORARILY, RESTRICTED NET ASSETS * 88

   
 
   
 
 

vot CHANGES in Pelosi RESTRICTED NET Aséers :

  

CONTRIBUTIONS (TASF-4) 4) (Notés B and 2.
EXCHANGE GAINS ~ ne Note B) °

   
    
  
  

188

   

  

 

198

 

“INCREASE IN PERMANENTLY RESTRICTED ner ASSETS” :

 

INCREASE IN NET ASSETS’. > 51,988

 

“NET ASSETS AT BEGINNING OF THE YEAR. 128,139

4, NET ASSETS At END OF THE YEAR®

   

$180,127 ©

See hotes to final aatenent (TAS: fF

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

TASE-2

wi“ASIAN DEVELOPMENT BANK - TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE SPECIAL FUND
STATEMENT OF CASH FLOWS

For the Years Ended 31 December 1995 and 31 December 1994

 

‘Expressed in Thousands of United States Dollars (Note B)

 

           
 

1995 1994

 

‘CASH FLOWS FROM OPERATING ACTIVITIES” fant,
$. 48,415:

Contributions téceived $188,383 °
5,184 - 2108 .
245 721

      
  
 
 
  
 
 
  
  
  
  
 
  
 
  

(89,598).
x (2

(131,129) ;
22,703
39,152

(85,575)

(154,849)

(1,161) :

143
(3,401)
__ 4,896
1,495

51,988 :

  

Adjustments t6 recontile increase
“\: to‘net eash provided by operating acti

  
  

(45,868). :

 

 

    
       
    
 

 

-. Contributioris receivable . 107,311
“ Undisbursed commitments ° (10,773)° . Pree ans TY
~. Translation adjustments (14,756). >. Pea ak
“Unrealized investment’ho ‘ing gains GP Jet a eh .
Advances for Services f 861

~~ Other = net: ys . (52)

 

we $11,644| 4 TASE-A a
" ASIAN DEVELOPMENT BANK - TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE SPECIAL FUND
| STATEMENT OF RESOURCES

31 December 1995

Expressed in Thousands of United States Dollars (Note B)

 

Contributions | Cumulative Contributions Cumulative
t Received Contributions Utilized Contributions Contributions
1 During 1995 Received During 1995 Utilized Unutilized

 

DIRECT VOLUNTARY CONTRIBUTIONS

       
     
   

Australia $ - $
Austria =
Bangladesh Belgium
Canada
China, People’s Rep. of
Denmark
Finland
France
Germany
Hong Kong
India
Indonesia
italy
Japan
Korea, Rep. of
* Malaysia,
Netherlands
New Zealand
, Norway.
-. Pakistan |...
Singapore. \
Spain
Sri Lanka
Sweden cee be
Switzerland
. Taipei,China
. United Kingdom ©».
United States

e
p

~
oO

14d

 

 

bbrradrrree

tii
Lave rr rte

 

 

 

 

~a
ENO

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

fd

 

 

x
De

: “Totals

  

HECULARIZED TASP REPLENISHMENTS AND
"ALLOCATION FROM ORDINARY CAPITAL 2-50 ie po aE
“RESOURCES NET INCOME (NoteD) "81,000. 498,083 , 156,260°
~ FRANSFERS TO ASIAN DEVELO?! ENTFUND 070,256) EE OE RRB born a

“OTHER RESOURCES! “39,900

 

17002, : 22,898

   
  

<UNREALIZED INVESTMENT HOLDING GAINS.” 6 694

    

 

totals.  gpto72 $623,067. $88,880" - $442,940. $180,327"

 

 

2 Includes exchange’ gain amounting to $9,026." See notes to financial statements (TASF-6)..
1 Other resources represent income and reimbursements accruing to the-TASF since 1 April 1980.

 

190eet TASF-5
ASIAN DEVELOPMENT BANK ~ TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE SPECIAL FUND

SUMMARY STATEMENT OF SERVICES TO MEMBER COUNTRIES
For the Year Ended 31 December 1995

Expressed in Thousands of United States Dollars (Note B)

 

Project
‘ : : 4 3 Project -  Implementation/
Recipients.” ¢ : : _ lo . Preparation —

 

 

Banglad
Bhutan
Camb: :
China, People
Cook Islands’

 

 

: Marshail Isl
' Mic¢ronesié
Morgoli

 

Regional Activities

"See notes to financial statements (T: ASE-6}: ie: Can tributions

hy Contributions from higmbar aduiityies are
. financial. statements. from the’ date contri

 

 

 

 

ASIAN DEVELOPMENT BANK - TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE SPECIAL FUND

NOTES TO FINANCIAL STATEMENTS

31 December 1995 and 31 December 1994

  
  

 

NOTE A - NATURE OF OPERATIONS

The Technical Assistance Special Fund (TASF) was established to provide technical assistance on a grant basis to
the Bank's developing member countties and for regional
technical assistance, TASF resources consist of direct voluntary contributions by members, allocations from the net
income of Ordinary Capital Resources (OCR) and Asian
Development Fund (ADF) contributions, and revenue from
investments and other sources.

NOTE B - SUMMARY OF SIGNIFICANT
_ ACCOUNTING POLICIES .

Presentation of the Financial Statements and
Reclassification of Certain Information

    

During 1 95, the Bank adopted new accounting standards

relatirig to accounting by not-for-profit organizations and;

contributions received and made. Thé presentation of the
financial statements of the TASF has been revised to
classify net
temporarily
stricted, To

  

   
 

riforti witli the new presentation, certain

 

reclassification of the prior year’s Peeaatiog have also."
* Been’ made. " ‘ iy

Investrienis a ek a

   

 

The Bank vetromulively “adapted afiew acbourtines standard
for its invegtraents in debt and equity securities “hel by” :
. TASF, All investment sécurities held by TASF are ieport
‘at estimated fair value, with realized-and unrealized gains“.
afid logsés iricludéd in revenue. Estimated fair Value gener.”
oy ally represents matket value. Cost o§ amortized cast is used
. to approximate fai value for ‘certail

 

 
 
  
 

ment? not-itaded inthe riarket (time, ‘deposits, e.). The
effect’ of the change on pee = net:

matirial;

 

 

‘ments become effective. Contributions frata dor

are’ réstricted’ by: them to technical. assistance projects/ on
prograrns. with specified procuremient sources: aré classi
’ pletion of the technical assistance projects/progre ams, ‘any
‘ gponding undisbursed commitments are’ reduced. As a
_. ended 31 December 1995 deéreased by $6, pes, 000
sets and the related changés in net assets as. *

‘restricted; permariently: restricted and unreReporting Currency

* sands ‘of. current United Statés: dollars. As a matter of :

: Translation, of | Currencies

sets is. not»

 

  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
     
  
  
 
 
  
 
    
  

fied as lemporarily restricted contributions. Contributions
from donors with stipulations that they be utilized only on a
reimbursable basis are classified as permanently restricted
assets. Those without any stipulations as to specific use are
accounted for as unrestricted contributions.

Services io Member Countries

Prior to 1995, services to member countries, which represent technical assistance expenses, were accrued as the
services were provided. With the introduction of a new °
accounting standard which the Bank adopted retroactively,
services to member couniries are now recognised in the
financial statements of TASF when the technical assistance
projects/programs are approved and effective, Upon com
undisbursed amoutits are written back.as a reduction in the
services to rember countries for the year and ihe, corre
result of the change, the increase in net assets for the year“

($18, 384, 090 increase ~ 1994),

  

The financial shite of TASE are expressed if thou
convenience, the United States dollai, the reporting currend, is uséd to iieasure exchange gains arid logse

 

short-term ‘invest: Cori
> the year ave t trans

 

as of the. respective dates een the contributions become :
fective, As ‘to ‘cumulative’ co ributions: received, the

: * utilized portions are translated at the applicable exchange

fates. as. of the réspective. dates: of. use .whereas, the

re’ translated. at the Applicable. 
Ss as of the ‘end ‘of-a reporting period: Rev <

nse amounts if ctitrencies other than United ©

llars are. translated for éach s monthly. petiod
erally at the appli able rates of: exchange at the begin
ing each petiods “such practice approximates the’applie v5.4OTASF-6
     
 
         
 

CONTINUED.

 

  

cation of average rates in effect during the period. Transia- At 31 December 1995 and 31 December 1994, ihe eit
tion adjusthents are accounted for as exchange gains or mated fair value of investments approximates the ‘amot-'
losses and are charged or Credited to operations. tized cost. All such investments are due in one year or less.

 

       

 

oes Proceeds tesa" sales.of investments in government and
government-guaranieed obligations during the’ year ‘ended’
“31 December 1995 were $22,703,000 ($34,506,000 ~
1994). “Gréss. gains’ and. gross. losses of $6. 000-.and

   
 
   
   
  
 
 
   
   
   
   
   
 
 
   
 
  
 

- Accounting Estimates

 

1995

     

$ 5,423,000
83,519,000
7,626,000
4,495,000
65,118,000
3,605,000
43,000
1,828,000
81,695,000
5,578,000
5,432,000

 
 
 
  
 
  
   

 
 
  
  

Governors Sues §81,0 000, 900° and
$70, 000, 000° to ‘TASE from thes 1994 and 1993 net:
income ‘of. the O in 1995) and, 1994, respectively: :

 

 
    

s received were conditional upon

     

$264,362,000TASF-6

ASIAN DEVELOPMENT BANK - TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE SPECIAL FUND

NOTES TO FINANCIAL STATEMENTS

31 December 1995 and 31 December 1994

 

The total contributions received for the years ended 31
December 1995 and 31 December 1994 were as follows:

1995 1994
Unrestricted contributions $81,000,000 $94,221,000
Temporarily restricted
contributions 72,000 62,000
Total contributions

$81,072,000 $94,283,000

“NOTE E - UNDISBURSED COMMITMENTS

Undisbuised commitments represent effective ongoing
gtant-finariced technical assistance projects and programs
which are not yet-disbursed as of the end of the year. The
fair value of such’ commitments approximates the amounts
“undisburged-bacatise the Bank expects that grants will be
« made for all-projécts arid programs covered by the commit:
"ments, When technical assistance: provided. as a project
... preparatory: grant leads to. a Bank loin, the amount of the
gfant exceeding $250,000 will be refinanced under the
Joan, Relinanced amounts of $87,000 ($425,000 = 1994)
‘were ‘charged. to loans and c¥edited ‘to revenue from ‘other
~ sources 8 of the. TASF during. the’ year aoe 31 Decemiber

    

 

 

NOTE F - FAIR VALUE OF FINANCIAL
INSTRUMENTS

Fair value of a financial instrument is defined as the amount
at which the instrument could be exchanged in a current
transaction between willing parties, other than in a forced
or liquidation sale.

The fair value of financial instruments that are short-term
approximates their carrying amounts.

If available, quoted market values are used to determine fair
values. Financial instruments for which market quotations
are not readily available are valued using methodologies
and assumptions which necessarily require the use of subjective judgments, Accordingly, the actual value at which
such financial instruments could be exchanged in a current
transaction or whether they are actually exchangeable is
not determinable.

The Fund's balance sheet. carrying amounts are considered
to approximate fair values for all significant financial instru
_ ments. See Notes B and E for: discussions with respect to

investments and \undisbursed commitments, respect.Deloittes
Touche Lp

 

San Francisco, California

Special Fund (ss :

21 February 1996.JSF-1

 

ASIAN DEVELOPMENT BANK - JAPAN SPECIAL FUND : |

BALANCE SHEET

 

31 December 1995 and 31 December 1994 |

1 Expressed in Thousands of United States Dollars (Note B) .

 

 

 

 
 
 
  
  
    
 
   
   

 

. TOTALS $454,920 $414,710

       

i}! ASSETS 1995 1994
iW 1 DUE FROM BANKS (Note B) $ 180 $ 182
| 5
| INVESTMENTS (Notes B and C)
. Government and government-guaranteed obligations $ 97 $ 20,477
Time deposits 449,961 450,058 383,776 404,253
EQUITY INVESTMENTS (Notes B and D) 1,117 1,252
Less — allowance for possible losses 391 726 1,252 ACCRUED REVENUE 263 443
OTHER ASSETS 3,693 9,832 °° i
|
i
|

"LIABILITIES AND UNCOMMITTED BALANCES
“RESOURCES © * $ 21g anes

 

 

iTS (Notes B ahd Ei

 
 
   
    
    

$286,899
72,345

    

359,244

 

 

 

$454,920JSF-2

  
  
  
   
   
    
   
       
    

ASIAN DEVELOPMENT BANK - JAPAN SPECIAL FUND
STATEMENT OF OPERATIONS AND CHANGES IN NET ASSET Ss
For the Years Ended 31 December 1995 and 31 December 1994

: Expressed in Thousands of United States Dollars (Note B)

 

 

 

  
   

 

  
 
   

 

  

 

 

 

1995 “q99d.
CHANGES) IN UNRESTRICTED NET ASSETS
$ 79,646 ©
$6,357
(4)
6,353
1 6,354
8,946
94,946
74,925
1,076
(767)
75,234
19,712
(138)
19,574
(7,490)
AFTER TRANSLATION ADJUSTMENT: 12,084
CHANGES IN TEMPORARIL RESTRICTED NE’
CONTRIBUTIONS (Notés B and P 25,322
NET ASSETS RELEASED FROM RESTRICTIONS (8,946)
INCREASE IN TEMPORARILY RESTRICTED NET ASSETS
BEFORE TRANSLATION ADJUSTMENTS : 16,376 .
TRANSLATION ADJUSTMENTS : (1,450) 8
’ INCREASE IN TEMPORARILY RESTRICTED NET ASSETS ‘:
“AFTER TRANSLATION ADJUSTMENTS - é 14,926 |
INCREASE IN NET ASSETS. © 27,010
NET ASSETS AT BEGINNING OF THE YEAR 332,234 |
NET ASSETS AT END OF THE YEAR ? $359,244 : $232,234

 

See notes 20 fnancial statements (SF-4).

 

 

 

  

 

- 197s, Net

 

a Etfect ot nai

 

 

   

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

   
 
 
    
   
      
       
 
       
    
       

ns See notes 16 fi

ASIAN DEVELOPMENT BANK - JAPAN SPECIAL FUND

STATEMENT OF CASH FLOWS

JSF-3

For the Years Ended 31 December 1995 and 31 December 1994

Expressed in Thousands of United States Dollars (Note B)

 

CASH FLOWS FROM OPERATING ACTIVITIES
Contributions received
Interest on investments received
Services to member countries paid
Adiministrative expenses paid

Net Cash Provided by Operating Activities

CASH FLOWS FROM INVESTING ACTIVITIES
Net cash invested in time deposits
Sales of thwestrient securities
Maturities of investment securities
_. Purchases of investment securities

sh Used for Investing Activities

 

 

GASH FLOWS FROM FINANCING ACTIVITIES
“Cash patd to Ordinary Capital.”
: Resour sand others ~ ~ net:

ate Changes on Due from Barks

From Banks :

“RECONGIUATON OF  NehtAge IN NET ASSETS TO
NET CASH PROVIDED | BY OPERATING ACTIVITIES:

Increase in Het assets :
Adjustments to recontlle increase in riet assets
to net cash provided by operating activities:

‘Unrealized investment holding {gains) losses
Tratislation adjustments’.
Provision for losses charged (ritten Tact)
Undisbarsed cominitments “:
Contribution Feceivable
Other assets - advances,
Accounts payable, oil ther liabilities .
Other ~ net te aa! 4

 

 

 

 

- Nat Cash Provided by Oper: S er

 

° § 27,010

  

. 1995 1994
$ 104,968 $ 99,777
6,690 6,847
(55,596) (42,803)
__ 0.072) __(1.088)
54,990 62,738
(21,243) (840,675)
105,892 206,253
526,220 1,014,361
(665,771) (942,698)
(54,902) (62,759) a

(103)

13

@) 20%

1s2 =

§ 180

3

 

 

 

  

Ane ee
8,940 (35.707
(767) 8s 1,202 i
16,366 8s 13,448 :
re (303)
6,131 (2,268)
8,164) 8 603
470 TE os (638)
$ 54,990 Os $62,738

 

   

idial Statements (ISE-4).

 

i
|
I
|
i
{‘approximate fair value for certain short term investments
* not traded in the market (time deposits, etc.). The effect of

 

JSSF-4

ASIAN DEVELOPMENT BANK - JAPAN SPECIAL FUND
NOTES TO FINANCIAL STATEMENTS

31 December 1995 and 31 December 1994 CONTINUED

 

NOTE A - NATURE OF OPERATIONS . Contributions

 

Contributions by Japan are included in the firiaricial state
 

The Japan Special Fund (JSF) was established in March.
1988 when Japan.and the Bank entered into a financial:
arrangement” whereby Japan vagreed “to make: an initial
contribution’ and the Bank became the’ admir i

  
 

that funds are expected to be made available, Contrib
ions which are restricted by the donor for spécific techni
cal assistance projects/programs are classified as, temp:

 

 

 

The Banik retroa ‘ively adopted'a,
for its investments i in debt and equity curities held by JSF

 

All investment securities held’ by JSF are reported at esti

 

‘ maiéd fair value, with realized and. unrealized: gains

 

lossés inchided in revenue. Estimated fair value generally ~- > the applicable rates of exchange at the end of'a’ Tepo ing
represents market value: Cost or amortized cost is used to”. ‘period. Contributions inchided in the financial statements
during the year are translated at the applicable’ exchange
rates as of the dates the contributions aré received: Revthe change or. prior'year net assets is not material. Syl oo enue and expense amounts in Japanese yen are translated

 

 

ments frorn the date indicated by the governmerit.of JapanASIAN DEVELOPMENT BANK - JAPAN SPECIAL FUND
NOTES TO FINANCIAL STATEMENTS

31 December 1995 and 31 December 1994
eT

for each semi-monthly period at the applicable rates of Additional information relating to investments in governexchange at the beginning of each period; such practice ment and government-guaranteed obligations, is as
approximates the application of average rates in effect follows:

during the period, Exchange gains or losses on currency

transactions between the Japanese yen and other curren- 1995 1994

cies are charged or credited to operations.
As of 31 December:

Equity Investments Amortized cost $ 97,000 $20,473,000
Estimated fair value 97,000 20,477,000
Equity investments are reported at cost. The Bank makes Gross unrealized gains - 4,000
provisions for possible loss of value quarterly based on Gross unrealized losses - management's evaluation of potential losses in the equity ‘
investments portfolio. For the years ended
| ‘ ee \ 31December: .
. Accounting Estimates , Change in net unrealized
"holding gains (losses) (4,000) 16,000

uo The prepair ation of financial statements i in conformity with Proceedsfrom sales, 105,892,000 206,253,000 
 

“ment ‘to. make estimates’ aid assumptions | that, affect the . Gross losses |...
". feported athounits of assets ‘and liabilifies'as at the end of
thé Year: and the, ‘teported, anounts’ of ‘iricome. and ex-. > . The annualized vate of yeti c on the avétdge investinents
"penses during the ' The actlial results could siffet fotn ‘held during, the year, based on the. portfolio hi
hose, estimate; : * ae beginning ‘and, nt each, ee -axcltidini

   
 
 
  
  

 

 

 
  

Statement of eat Flows" ‘y ; :

    
 
   

| etinsidevs that its éash ane “east meen aré “inte tS
‘|. SDUE FROM BANKS: ‘ ;

 

 

 

 

 

NOTE C- INVESTM ENTS

 

The investmerit portals was aeraeciell wholly of thvést? a,

‘ments denominated ih Japanese yen. As of 31 December
1995, the amortized cost and estimated fair value of the -"
investments ‘were equal which Was $450, 058, 000 :
($404,249 ,000 and $404,253,000, retbaatively 1994), é
and were due in one year or jess

 

1994). There was no acquisition, during the year. ‘(nil =

-1994) and the ‘charige i in’ainount was attribiitable to trans.

lation: adjustments. Equity ee were not considéréd
inaterial and \ were iiot fale val lued, 3

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

generally accepted accounting principles requires manage-° Gtoss gains - "20,000 »

 

~ ments in india in- 1990 totalling $1, aa 000 $1, 252 ;000"JSF-4

   
  
   

 

STE G FAIR VALUE OF FINANCIAL) |
INSTRUMENTS :

 

financial instrument is defined.as the. |
instrument could be exchanged in. a.
current transaction between willing parties, other than in aStatistical Annex

Economic Data of DMCs

ONDALRWNH

Bank
5,
10.
lL.
12.
13.
14,
15.
16.
17.
18.
19,

20.
2i.

22,
23.
24.
25.

26.
27.
28.

29.
30.

31.
32.
33.
34.

35,
36.

37.
38,

Estimates of Real GDP Growth Rate, 1985-1995 and Per Capita GNP, 1994

Domestic Savings, Capital Formation and Resource Gap as Percentage of GDP. 1993-1995

Changes in Consumer Prices, 1993-1995

Per Capita Commercial Energy Consumption, 1991-1993

Foreign Trade, 1993-1995

International Reserves and Ratio of Reserves to Imports, 1993-1995
Total Net Flows of Financia: Resources to DMCs, 1992-1994

Total External Debt and Debt-Service Ratio, 1992-1994

Operational Data

1995 Loan Approvals and Total Project Costs, by Country

Loan Approvals by Sector: Three-Year Moving Averages, 1968-1970 - 1993-1995
Sectoral Distribution of Loans, 1995

1995 Loan Approvals, by Sector

Loan Approvals by Country and by Source of Funds, 1995

Distribution of Lending Among Developing Member Countries, 1968-1995
Projects Invelving Cofinanciag in 1995

Private Sector Investments Approved in 1995

Annual Private Sector Operations, 1986-1995

Private Sector Investments by Country, 1983-1995

Private Sector Investments by Sector

Contracts Awarded and Disbursements Under Effective Loans, 1968-1995
Numbet of Loans and Projects Approved and Under Administration, PCRs

Circulated, Projects Completed, Loans Closed ard PPARs Circulated in 1995 Amounts of Loans. Approved, Contracts Awarded and Disbursements
Distribution of Cortracts Awarded by Country of Origin - Ordinary Capital Resources
Distribution of Contracts Awarded by Country of Origin - Asian Developrrent Fund
Distribution of Contracts Awarded by Country of Origin —

Ordinary Capital Resources and Asian Deveiopment Fund Combined
Contracis Awarded by Country of Origin in 1995 - Ordinary Capital Resources
Contracis Awarded by Country of Origin in 1995 — Asian Developrrent Fund
Contracts Awarded by Country of Origin in 1995 
Ordinary Capital Resources and Asian Development Fund Coimbined
Cumuiative Contracts Awarded by Country of Origin - Technical Assistance Operations
Contracts Awarded by Country of Origin, 1993-1995 — Technical Assistance Operations

Grant-Financed Technical Assistance Approvals, 1995

1995 Loans that Resulted from Earlier Bank Technical Assistance

Regional Technical Assistance Activities, 1995

Grant-Financed Technical Assistance Approvals by‘Country and Regional Activiti ‘es,
1994, 1995, 1967-1995

Grant-Financed Technical Assistance Approvals by Sector, 1994, 1995, 1967-1995

Net Transfer of Resources to DMCs (OCR), 1983-1995
Net Transfer of Resources to DMCs (ADF), 1983-1995
Net Transfer of Resources to DMCs {OCR and ADF}, 1983-1995

Financial Resources

39.
40.
41.

Status of Asian Development Fund Resources
Technical Assistance Specia! Fund
Japan Special Fund

204
204
205
206
207
208
209
210
24.

212
212
215
216
217
219
220
222
223
223
224

224

225

226
228
230
231

232
233
234

235
236
237

238
244
246

248
250

251
252
253

254
254
255.
256

 

 
   

203ECONOMIC DATA OF DMCs

 

 

 

 

 

   

  
    
   
 
       
 
   

  

 

 

 
 

 

 

Table 1
ESTIMATES OF REAL GDP GROWTH RATE, 1985-1995
AND PER CAPITA GNP, 1994
i
GDP Growth Rate (%) Per Capita GNP*
Country Annual Average 1993 1994 1995° (USS)
(1985-1992) 1994
NIEs 8.0 64 7.5 76
Hong Kong 6.2 6.4 5.4 4.6 21,650
Korea, Rep. of 8.9 58 84 9.2 8,220
Singapore 6.5 10.1 10.1 8.9 23,360
Taipei,China 6.1 6.3 6.5 63 11,930
PRC and MONGOLIA 9.6 13.5 11.8 10.2
China, People’s Rep. of 9.6 13.5 11.8 10.2 530
Mongolia® 0.8 -3.0 2.3 6.3 340
SOUTHEAST ASIA 6.5 7A 7.8 79
Cambodia® 5.84 41 4.0 75 240
Indonesia 6.2 73 75 7.6 880
Lao PDR 4.74 5.9 8.1 71 320
Malaysia 6.2 8.3 9,2 9.3 3,520
Myanmar“ * 0.2 5.9 68 7 ak
Philippines 2.0 21. 44 4.8 960
‘Thailand 9.2 8.3 8.7 8.6 2,210
Viet Nam 4.94 8.1 8.8 9.5 190
SOUTH ASIA 5.3 4.6 5.8 5.8
Afghanistan® -3.54 ate <a te wnt
Bangladesh’ 3.9 45 42 4.1 230
Bhutan 6.2 6.3 6.5 * 5.5 400
India! 5.3 5.0 6.3 6.2 310
Maldives 9.44 6.2 6.6 58 900
Nepal 5.2 3.3 7.3 2.3 200
Pakistan! 6.2, ° 23 3.8 4.7 440
Srilanka 3.9 69 ° 56 ‘ 5.6 640
CENTRAL ASIAN REPUBLICS® ‘
Kazakhstan °° f -25,4 -8.9 1,110
Krygyz Republic 26-5..." 6.2 610
Uzbekistan : 3a 27 950
PACIFIC DMCs 8. 2.8.% 4.3
Cook Islands 15 5 -3.7 4,150
FI 1.3: a5 22 2,320
Kiribatt 19 1p. 2.6 730
Marshall Islands). O.BY 10°: 14 1,680
Microriesia, Fed, States of B:7. + 13 1.0 1,890
Papua New Guinea ‘16.6. EB 4.8 1,160
Solomon Islands 7.8 La 4.0 800
Tonga! 28 5.7 18 1,640
Tuvalu BPS Bl 2.0 aye
Vanuatu Lao, "2B 2.0 1,150
Western Samoa : 6.0 6.7 970
WEIGHTED AVERAGE?
a
b Preliralnary evohi *
e Country figure is excluded from, véspedlive Group and (: So tawe e
d_ Referste 1985-1 -89 for Afghanistan, 1986-92 forLaoPDR; Mal jerated $ 1992 forKazakhsiahy;
* Kyrgue Républie anc Uzbekistan, 1991-92 for Marshall Heat B31 tor Solomon Islat ee {
@. Estimated to’be low-income ($725 or ‘ess).: i :
f Refers to fiscal year: is
g Respective year GDP (in Us dolar) i is used as Weighits for 1993 and 994.3 However, SDP i in is
Sources: Country’ ‘SOUTCES: ~
ss World Bahk, The World Bank Atlas 1996.
World Bank, 02 February 1996;
ADB Hp file. ‘
204Table 2°. ° ae ee
DOMESTIC SAVINGS, CAPITAL FORMATION AND RESOURCE GAP
AS PERCENTAGE OF GDP, 1993-1995

ee LA A rt ae

 

 

 

Gross Domestic Savings Gross Capital Formation Resource Gap
as Percentage of GDP as Percentage of GDP as Perceniage of GDP
Country : 1993 1994 1995? 1993 1994 1995? 1993 1994 1995#

 

 

  
         
 

    

    
 
 
 
   

NIEs mes
Hornig Kong : 33.1
Korea, Rep.of 36.6
Singapore. «: 33.9
24.5
PRC. and MONGOLIA —
«China, Pe: 's-Rep..ot. : Lz & 9 40.0 39.5
: : ; : i 23.7
215
38.3
40.6
13.0
22.3
40.0
27.6

14.8
545
24.0

20.2
19.1
25.7

‘Cook Islands’
Fie 3
Kiribati ian
Marshall Islands

Micronesia, Fed. Sta
Papua New Guinea”
“= Solorion Islands" =

“. Toriga;

© Thala." ey epreen (tit
ee Vanuatu’ PS . ge ee oS
Western Samoa... « c

     
       
 
 

      
     

 

   
   
   
 

24.7"

    
 
 
     

‘1 Data rot available.

 

a.-Preliminary estiriates.
‘Source: ADB data file,.-@. Respective year

” Sotirces:’ ° Coninitry sources:

 

Table 3
CHANGES IN CONSUMER PRICES, 1993-1995°

 

 
 
    
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 

 

 

 

   
 
 
  

(%)
i
Country 1993 1994 1995!
NIEs ‘ 4.6 57 4.8
Hong Kong 85 8.1 8.7
Korea, Rep. of 48 6.2 4.5
Singapore 24 3.8 8:2
Taipei,China 2.9 4.1 3.7
PRC and MONGOLIA 13.0 21.7 14.8
China, Peaple's Rep. of 13.0 21.7 14.8
Mongolia® 268.4 87.6 56.8
SOUTHEAST ASIA 6.4 7.0 7.4
Cambodia® 31.0 26.1 3.5
Indonesia 9.6 8.5 9.4
Lao PDR 6.3 6.7 19.4
Malaysia 3.6 3:7 3.4
Myanmar“ 31.8 24.1 24.7
Philippines 76 9.1 8.1
Thailand 3.4 5.1 5.8
Viet Nam ¢ 5.3 14.4 12.7
SOUTH ASIA 7.6 99 9.8
Afghanistan® we ay a
Bangladesh? 3.3 8.9
Bhutan 8.2 8.6
India 10.1 9.5
Maldives. 16.5 7.7
Nepal . $8.9 7.6
Pakistan -, 12,8.04 12.9
: Sri-Lanka. ’ » B.A yaad
'_ GEINTRAL ASIAN REPUBLICS® :
' "Kazakhstan oe 175.9
*~ Kyrgvz Republid, -- 41,7
Uzbekistan ..,.°° 516.0
PACIFIC DMCs 14.4
Cook Islands! aa
Fs 2.0
Kitibati®: 65
Marstiall Islands 4.0
Mieréhesia, Fed. States off,” 4.0
Papua.New ‘Guinea! 15.0
: Solomon Islands®:.  * 9.0
Tonga 0.3
Tuvalu’ 1.5
Vanuatut 2.3
Wesierti Satnoa .’ 4.5

 

 

 

 

WEIGHTED A\

 
   

 

1994.

 

‘US dolla) tc usedl as Weights for 1993 and

ADE data file”.Table 4
PER CAPITA COMMERCIAL ENERGY CONSUMPTION, 1991-1993
(Standard kilogram of oil equivalent)

ooo}
Country . 1991 1992 1993

 

 
     
 
     
   
 

NIEs 2,450 2,802
Hong Kong 1,862° 2,187
Korea, Rep. of . 3 2,318 . 2,689
Singapore h . 5,963
Taipei,China ~ . 2,780

PRC and MONGOLIA 686
China; People’s Rep. of 685

 
 

Mongolia:

 
    
 
 

SOUTHEAST asia’

  

Micronesia, ‘Fed. States 0
Papua New’ Guinea.
Solomon Islands”

2 Tonga

Tuvalu
Vanuahi:
Western Shitioa’

 
   
 
        
    
  

AVERAGE FOR DMCs?

«, Data not available.

  
  

   
   
 

the c counties under t the Organisation for Economic c Comoperation and Development
1 1992 was 4; 4759 kgoe:

ae By comparison, the’éverage per capita commercial energy consumptiar
(QECD) is about 10 times that of the DMC average, The OECD average

. Sources: ADB, Energy Division, 16 February 1996.
United Nations, 7 February 1996.” :|| Table 5
| i FOREIGN TRADE, 1993-1995
fe ($ million) ;
ft t
1 | ‘ Exporis (fob) Imports (cif) Balance of Trade |
: { Country 1993 1994-19958 1993. 1994-1995" 4993 1994 19958 !
Wis :
ean
: vik NIEs 376,512 436,917 531,074 384,672 451,932 575,898 -8,160 -15,015 -44,824 weal
i Hong Korig 135,244 151,399 176,711 138,650 161,841 210,367 -3,406 -10,442 -33,656 {
Feet Korea, Rep. of 82,236 96,013 124,029 83,800 102,348 136,241 “1,564  -6,335 -12,212 i
hy Singapore 73,940 96,456 118,186 85,161 102,394 124,395 -11,220 -5,938  -6,209
, he Taipei,China 85,091 93,049 112,148 77,061 85,349 104,895 8,030 7,700 7,253
! PRC and MONGOLIA 92,121 121,382 149,221 104,321 115,913 132.551 -12,201 5,470 16,670
China, People’s Rep. of 91,740 121,040 148,770 103,960 115,690 132,078 . -12,220 5,350 16,692
Mongolia 381 342 451 361 223 473 19 120 -22
SOUTHEAST ASIA 136,320 162,449 196,745 144,523 175,955 231,865 -8,203 -13,505 -35,120
Cambodia 284 490 702 512 789 1,062 ~228 299 360
Indonesia 36,823 40,053 44,700 28,328 31,983 44,576 8,495 8,070 124
Lao PDR 240 . 300 348 432 564 587 -192 -264 +239
Malaysia 47,099 58,652 72,067 45,610 59,414 79,853 1,489 -762 -7,786
Myanmar 687 810 1,017 1,287 1,702 1,916 -600 +892 -B899
Philippines 11,375 13,483 17,316 18,773 22,638 28,192 -7,398  -9,155 -10,876
Thailand 36,963 45,061 55,375 46,076 54,365 68,554 -9,113 -9,304 -13,179
Viet Nam> 2,850 3,600 5,220 3,505 4,500 7,125 -655 900 -1,905
SOUTH ASIA * 84,673 39,524 47,950 41,940 49,826 63,980 7,268 10,303 -16,030
. Afghanistan aa ave ee sey wee we 2% a ae
Bangladesh 2,230 2,335 3,473 3,995 4,049 6,633 -1,766 -1,714 -3,160
Bhutan? - . 60 sie 114 as oo -54 a ve
India 22,808 26,763 32, 397 23,876 31,269 39,618 -1,069 -4,506 -7,221
Maldives? ee) 75 191 215 aaa “157-140 ve
: Nepal : ; von 355 393 345 807, 1,061 1,263 -451 668 -918
Pakistan: : 6,330- 6,749. 7,884 9,204 ~ 8,452 11,100 -2,874 . -8,216
SH Larika Po een 2,856 3,209 3,851; . 3,754; 4,780 5,366. , 898 -1,515
CENTRAL ASIAN REPUBLICS : e 666°: 6,511 7,554.» 7,865. | 6,619 8,492 ~ -1,199. -938
Kazakhstan, : 3,231: 3,417 4,107., 3,494 4,371... -658 . 954
“Kyrgyz Republic : 340 366 .. 503 398 502° -163°. | 58 -136
Uabelisian®” 2,940, 3,771 5.) 3,255 2,727 3619 878. 213182
PACIFIC DMCs et 3,201 ° 25704 2,914 287
Cook Islands aa 67 " we
Fig 495 2 Be 720 ay -332
Kiribati. wt 6 Re 31
‘Marshall, islands Re ane Oe EB eae we
Micronesia, Fed, States oe 31.2 dp BRS -110
“Papua New Guinea. 2,627 -* -- 4,805% 886
+ Solomon Islands we Sa ABO ee &
“Tonga 17 vee Oe GL, -57
“Tuvalu wee afte mee f : 1
“Vanuatil >: 26 95 ed -69
i - -Westert, Samoa. ia “397 #
935,744 -33,117: -79,957
"b linport ges are based ont 1 fob.
Sourées; *: Country sources.
IMF, Internatignal Finoneial Statistics, Febriary 1996.
ADB data file208Table 6
INTERNATIONAL RESERVES AND RATIO OF RESERVES
TO IMPORTS, 1993-1995

 

 

 

 

 

         

 

  

 

International Reserves* Ratio to Imports?
($ million) (Months)
Country 1993 1994 1995° 1993 1994 1995°
NIEs . 5 ee % 157,920 182,123 196,715 2.7 75 6.5
Hong Kong ¥ a a5 ee | re wa we
Korea, Rep. of 20,262 25,673 32,712 29 3.0 2,
Singapore». 48,361 | 58,177 . 67,736 6.8 2 6:8 6.5
Taipei, China ees 89,298 * 98,273 96,247 13.9 13.8 11.0
PRC and MONGOLIA “23,064 53,652 76,913 2 56, 7.0
China, People's Rep: ° : of ae 76,816 « 5.6 7.0
Mongolia of ‘ : : 97 «3.0, 24
SOUTHEAST ASIA 84,471 : 45

 

14,787
213

Papua New Guinea”
Solomon Islancs®

Vanuatu’
Western Samga®

TOTAL

i. Data not available.

a Consisting of gold, SDRs, reserve posit >

b Imports, cif from trade statistics were used for computin
¢ Preliminary estimetes

¢ Refers to reserve position in the Fond =f SDRs only,

€. Refers to total reserves mint's gold:

f. Refers to gross official reserves of the counzy

IME, International Financia! Statist:

Sources:
Country sources. 2) =

 

 

DIOS LOO Goa Be,
PaANARwWo:

PEON, (OS a. Ol
NOBI DO! wi uw

 

end figures unless otherwise specified. .Table 7
TOTAL NET FLOWS OF FINANCIAL RESOURCES TO DMCs’, 1992-1994
($ million)
a EE
Concessional Flows (ODA) Nonconcessional Flows” Tota] Flows
Country 1992 1993 1994 1992 1993 1994 1992 1993 1994
NIEs -10 27 58 6,031 8,199 16,750 6,021 8,226 16,693
Hong Kong -39 30 27 1,786 3,408 6,747 1,747 3,438 6,773
Korea, Rep. of 3 -35 -107 2,416 2,276 4,477 2,419 2,242 4,370
Singapore 20 24 17 3,244 3,671 4,763 3,264 3,695 4,780
Taipei,China 6 7 6 -1,414 = -1,156 764 1,409 -1,149 770
PRC and MONGOLIA 3,161 3,396 3,398 3,055 5,750 9,499 6,216 9,146 12,897
China, People's Rep. of 3,038 3,270 3,214 3,043 5,730 9,516 6,081 9,000 12,730
Mongolia 123 126 184 12 20 “17 135 146 168
SOUTHEAST ASIA 5,840 5,115 4,975 7,425 10,274 15,441 13,265 15,389 20,416
Cambodia 207 317 337 7 3 14 214 320 351
Indonesia 2,080 2,030 1,644 3,753 1,853 3,758 5,832 3,883 5,402
Lao PDR 166 208 219 0 0 1 167 208 220
Malaysia 210 100 5 1,000 4,684 3,224 1,210 4,784 3,299
Myanmar 115 97 160 13 10 9 128 107 169
Philippities 4,714 1,485 1,055 -275 1,808 1,778 “1,439 = 3,294 2,833
Thailand 781 620 587 2,910 1,825 6,419 3,691 2,444, 7,007
: Viet Nam. 568 259 899 16 91 237 584 849: 1,136
ui ,
| SOUTH ASIA 6,728 5,273 7,103 1,626. 1,698 2,446 8,353 9,551
i f Afghanistan 201 219 223 0 4, -58
i ‘Bangladési  - 1,825 | 1,379 1,750 133 107 -141
Bhutan | 58... 66 77 ~13 8 2
India“. B 2,454 1,492 2,363 .'... ° 685 638 =—-:1,483 ©
Maldiv’es , 35 31 32 3 8 11
Nepal. hoe 437, 369. 452 . 64. -14 2
Pakistan. x 1,072 1,053 1,613 o 726 798 1,126
Sri Lanka,’ hy 646 666 593 28 157 75
CENTRAL ASIAN REPUBLICS 14° 115 248 2 WL 399: 674
Kazakhstan’. “10 14 48 WON 874 596 |.
Kyrgyz Republic.) 50%.” 4 93 172 oe 2 28
Uzbekistan 2°) e adie. oF 28 0: 9 76”
PACIFIC DMGs? 20 Sop 08 948°) 670 783 jie he BME Ad “397 Be
“Cool Islands: Eicig ilies 8 ADE 8 i4 | 560136" -255
Fiji : She Aggy 4 S68 40 285 GAL F-B8 18
* Kiribati be ala 2E a, TE: 15 2 gei Tee a
Marshall Islands 0 Bl Bhs 32 49 ¢ OPO Sees ple 2: 4.
“Micronesia, Fed, States afi. oe 14h 64 104 °, (ee 0 1:
Papita New Guinea »,, 443° 303 326 «! 190 58 -84
Solomon Islands: 45 56: 48 a 2 3 ald
» Tonga. : © 24, pas BL 35 2" 0. 0 0 .
Tuvala sro 8, 74 ih : eee 0:
US Varuatuh os af .85 42 £84 -29 |
Western Satnda v.69 0: 52 48 ees, On:
ae TOTAL 18,528'. 26,59 44,402 35,000 40,858 60,801 »
oe Magnitude equals zero,
0 Magnitude 5 is less: than half of the tit mph
‘ ig Net flaws innply total ilows minus yepay
6 Including’ bilateral and multilateral fone
Souiree: OECD, 07 Februay 1 1996. :“TOTAL "| 468,842: 509,378. 576,113. 53,723 65,556. 69,459 14.1

» a Debt outstanding is as of end of year which covers long and : sho! term debt of public and private entities in the country as 5 well as the use eof Me Pas

Table 8 .
TOTAL EXTERNAL DEBT AND DEBT- SERVICE RATIO, 1992-1994 .

 

($ million}
d Debt Outstanding* Service Payments” Debt-service Ratio? (%)
Country gles! LSE 1990 « » 1993. 1994... 1992 1993 1994 1992 1993 1994

 

   

54,542 2

54,542

NIEs i ~
Hong Kong“
Korea, Rep. Of
Singapore

Taipei,China

  

9,173, 7,923 7.6 9.2 6.8

      
   
 

9.173.) 7,923.) 76 ye G2. 68

   

     
 
 
 

 

  
  
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
  

 

100,979
100,536
443 *

11,175 10.
11,135 |, 10,
40 i

PRC and MONGOLIA
China, People’s, R
4 Mongolia

  

wow

  

257,200
1,943
96,500
2,080
24.767 6,502 ©
39,302
60,991
25,115

“a

ame. om
AABIIISOHR www

    
   
      
    
    
        

  
  
  
  
   
 
 
 
 
   

rm

3 NN OPEN ORL OW OF HM Aw
POrire1 om eHoOON Om! BWI HID HOAMBNUOERD

wn ow

@

a

 
  

   

   

 
 
 
    

  
    

Papua New. Guinea, as 29.3 29.
-” Solomon Islands. 8. 10% 17; 1 BOSS

Tonga aed a 3 3.05,

* Tuvalu = - =

Vanuata QF 2 tg, 14.

Wester Samoa 155. 54 5.5.5

 

 
 

~ Not reporting.
.. Data net available.

 

  

b Service payments include yearly payments on principal and intevest’on long-term debt, IMF repurchases and charges, and interest peymients on short term debt.
Debt-service ratio is the percentage of service payments to pores. ot goods and services including sioders remitiances). ‘ 5
¢: The long-term dedt data ‘are on fiscai-year basis: . .

Sources World Bank, 13 Febriiary 1996. <2! > >
World Bank, World Debi Tables; 1996.BANK OPERATIONAL DATA
Table 9
1995 LOAN APPROVALS AND TOTAL PROJECT COSTS, BY COUNTRY

pe
Amounts in $ Million

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

  

 

 

 

   

   

 
         

Total Date
Country/Project OCR ADF Total Project of
Cost® Approval
BANGLADESH
Coastal Greenbelt - 23.40 23.40 29.30 2 Mar 95
Rural Electrification = 50.00 50.00 92.90 30 May 95
Secondary Towns Infrastructure Development I] - 65.00 65.00 82.87 19 Sep 95
Small-Scale Water Resources Development Sector - 32.00 32.00 66.00 26 Sep 95
Nonformal Education - 26.70 26,70 51.00 29 Sep 95
Command Area Development - 30.00 30.00 50.10 7 Nov 95
Islam Cement Ltd.” 18.50 - 18.50 90.00 19 Dec 95
Subtotal 18.50 227.10 245.60 462.17
BHUTAN
Rural Electrification - 7,50 7,50 9.50 19 Sep 95
Subtotal - 7.50 7.50 9.50
CAMBODIA ,
Basic Skills - 20.00 20.00 25.00 30 Aug 95
Rural Infrastructure Improvement - 25.10 26,10 31.40 28 Sep 95
» Subtotal! ‘ - 45.10. * 45.10 56.40
china, PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC. OF : Oe . "
» Second Agricultural Bank of China . 100,00 |, 100.00 49 Jan 95
Hainan Agriculture and Natural Resources Development “53.00... 53.00...” Sep,95
Sécond Télecornmiuniications “.- * oe pt 400,00. FE 100;00: 6 Sep 2
Hebei Expressway. , cet 220,00 - 220,00 .
_ «Liaoning Expressvay’ ' ‘of ‘100,00
+. Fujlan Soil Conservation and Rial Devslopment. ek » 65.00
® SHenan Power ost! . : » 200,00

   

Fujlan Mianhuatan Hydropower ae ae
ne Second Yantai Port HP os :
“Ping Hy Oil and Gas Develoiriet is

Subtotal

 

 

 

 

 

  
    
 

 

   

: cook ISLANDS | ; ee
Third Cools Islands Devo B !

  

 

 

; Capital Market Development Progtaini
© Rartatake Urbari Infrastruct D
ee Rape of Tadia: Ly

 

 

31 ven 95
Z-Feb 95.
8 dun 95.CONTINUED
F
Amounts in $ Million 
 

Total -, Date
Country/Project OCR ADF Total Project wo of
Cost® Approval

INDONESIA g ‘

   
  
              
 

    
  

Private Junior Secondary Education) «> 2" 83.10 {8 Jul 95
Senior Secondary Education” - 198.60 18 Jul 95

., Farmer Managed Irrigation Systems | 44.00 21 Sep 95
Sumatra Groban Development (Sector): ee 217-00 “26 Sep 95
West Java Urban Development, ‘Sector 70.00 117,00 » 26 Sep 95
Power Development and Efi 
     
  

 

734.00. . 24.0e 95
5 2,178.29:

 
 
 

250.008

 
   
  

  
  
 
   
 

* MONGOLIA:

   
  

Roads Development: ; 25.00 8-31.50"! 22 Aug S55:
“s, National Air Navigation Developme } 32.50.55 Sep GOR"
_ Agriculture Sector Progrem.

 
  
 
 
 

      

 

mals 5 Dec 95...

 

Subiotal’

  

NEPAL
Third Road Improvement.

 
     
 

 

: 2 80.00" 21 Sep 95.
Taragaon Regency Hotels Ltaé 8.00" 38.715" 12 Jan 95
\ “Subtotal : ,

     
   

226 48.00 88.71

 

 
  

“. a Total project cost includes Bank, government ard cofinanciers’ contributions. See
‘°° b Project-cost not known at approval stage. This is an estimate.
_¢, Private sectors wan without government Byeranies =Sri LANKA

 
 

 

“. THAILAND

 
  
    

214

 

 

 

 

 

 

CONTINUED

se LS

Amounts in $ Million

 

 

 

  

Total Date
Country/Project OCR ADF Total Project of.
Cost* Approval
PAKISTAN

Punjab Rural Water Supply and Sanitation (Sector) - 46.00 46.00 60.00 31 Jan 95
Marala-Ravi Link Canal System Technical

Assistance - 3.20 3.20 4.00 31 dan 95
Financial Sector Intermediation Loan 100.00 - 100.00 250.00" 7 Sep 95
Technical Education - 60.00 60.00 78.00 19 Sep 95
Atlas Lease Co. Lid. It* 10.00 - 10.00 25.00? 10 Oct 95
National Development Leasing Corp. Lid. Ive 15.00 - 15.00 37. 50° 10 Oct 95
Orix Leasing Pakistan Ltd, 1° 20.00 - 20.00 50. oo? 10 Oct 95
Pakistan Industrial Leasing Corp. Ltd. II* 15.00 - 15.00 37.50° 10 Oct 95
Rural Access Roads - 140.00 140.00 178.00 9 Nov 95
Forestry Sector - 42.60 42.60 56.00 9 Nov 95
Nationat Drainage (Sector) - 140.00 140,00 185.00 12 Dec 95

Subtotal 160.00 431.80 591.80 961.00

PHILIPPINES

Capital Market Development Program 150.00 - 150.00 375.00° 22 Aug 95
Second Irrigation Systerns Improvement 15.00 15.00 30.00 46.88 30 Aug 95
Regional Municipal Development 30.00 | - 30.00 44.20 80 Aug 95
Umiray-Angat Transbasin _ . 92,00 - 92.00 140.00 » 21Sép95
Integrated Community Health - 25.91 25.91 . , 5110, . 17-Oct 95
Ronen Luzon ‘Transmission mand Generation : 244.00 - 244,00 896,30. . 2 Nov 95

_ Subtotal “ie A 531.00 40,91 B7194.° 4,573,48

 

 
   
 
     
   
   
   
    
  
   

 

60.00 , 60.00 9 Now 95.

 

Platitation Reform... : .
Second’ Power. System Expansion (Sector). 80.00 80.00
- Sbtotal arn 940.00. "140,00

  

Shope RabiSnal Reads Sacto} ‘ eR 180.00
Sammut Prakarn’ Miashauintey Management: Bch a'yg 150.00

zs Subtotal eo bse

 

   

 

   

 

 

.» Saigon Fr a

Power Distribution Rehabili
Provintial Towns Water Supply and Sanitation
nifttuctire Anprovernent

 

8Jun95
17 Aug 95
16 Noy 95

  

     
 
 
 

 

 

 

a. Total pro
b Project cost not knowin at Sree silage. This igan
c Private Seer, Tegin without government gueraiitee. xTable 10 #8, <0 Ese ee ee
LOAN APPROVALS BY SECTOR: THREE-YEAR MOVING AVERAGES, 1968-1970 — 1993-1995
a eee mene

Total Agriculture Industry Transport Social ~~ MultiLending®* and Agro- Energy Finance & Nonfuel &Communi- —Infra-': sector &

(§ miftion) industry Minerals cations structure ° Others

 

 

(3 of Total Lending)

 

 

 

Averagéduring 30° isa - =

1968-1970 : ‘ ; = 19.48. 98 53, 28. 15.06
1969-1971 3 a

1970-1972

 

1971-1973
1972-1974
1973-1975

19741976Table 11
SECTORAL DISTRIBUTION OF LOANS, 1995°
(Amounts in $ million)
OcR ADF TOTAL

Sector No. Amount No. Amount No.” Amount % !
Agriculture and
Agro-industry 5 333.00 15 563.60 19 896.60 16,29
Energy 7 1,574.00 4 217.48 Bf 1,791.48 32.55
Industryand Nonfuel
Minerals 1 18.50 - - 1 18.50 0.34
Finance 7 560.00 1 3.00 8 563,00 10.23
Transportand
Communications 5 663.00 6 307.00 u 970.00 17.62
Social Infrastructure iL 893.00 11 363.81 21 1,256.81 22.83
Multisector - - - - = 
© Others, 1 8.00 - - 1 8.00

. TOTAL te hye . 37 4,049.50: ¢ 37 1,454.89 72 5,504.39

Haale xs D - : . te wed ty i i

a Includes private sector loans, :

Lb A pidject which is financed from both souirces ts counted as one project.Table 12 : wee Bs

1995 LOAN APPROVALS, BY SECTOR

rr rrr EEE
® Amounts in $ million :

 

Country Project Name : OCR ADF Total

AGRICULTURE AND AGRO-INDUSTRY

BAN Coastal Greenbelt em 23.40
BAN Command Area Development Re 30.00

 

BAN Small-Scale Water Resources Development Sector? . - 32.00
CAM Rural! Infrastructure Improverient i
INO Farmer Managed Irrigation Systems
‘Sulawesi Rainfed Agriculture Development’
* Agriculture Sector, Program
Agriculture: Sector Prograrn’
. Agriculture Sector’ Program:

  

 

Financial ane Inien eaten Lo:
Atlas Lease Cq, Ltd?» ’
National Development, Leasing )
Orix Leasing Pakistan Lede 8 ee é
Pakistan, Industrial Leasing Corp: Lt “me :
Capital Market Development Program ey

 

 

 

Subtotal

a Private sector loan without government guarantee.

»: Key: BAN Bangladesh}, CAM (Cambodial, PRC (Peepie's Republic of China), BHU {Bhutan}, COO (Cooktsiands) IND india’, INO fIndonesia), KAZ (Kazeishstan)
KGz (Kyrgyz Republic], LAO (Lao People's Democratic Republic), MAL (Malaysia), RMI Matshal Islands}; MON (Mongolia), NEP (Nepal}, PAK (Pakistan),
“: PHI Pelkpphnes), SRI (Sri ree THA (Thailand), TON Mt ‘onga} and VIE (Viet Ne ‘ 7

 

 

217CONTINUED

 

Amounts in § million

Country Project Name OCR ADF Total

 

INDUSTRY AND NONFUEL MINERALS
BAN Islam Cement Ltd.* 18.50 = 18.50
Subtotal 18.50 - 18.50

SOCIAL INFRASTRUCTURE

BAN Nonformal Education - 26.70 26.70
BAN Secondary Towns Infrastructure Development Il - 65.00 65.00
CAM Basic. Sldills ~ 20.00 20,00
IND Karnataka Urban Infrastructure Development

— Republic of India 85.00

- Housing Development Finance Corporation 20.00
INO Private Junior Secondary Education 49.00
INO Senior Secondary Education 110.060
INO Sumatra Urban Development: (Sector) 180.00
INO West Java Urban Development (Sector) 70,00
INO Rural Water Supply and Sanitation Sector 85.00

 

LAO Postsecondary Education Rationalization LAO Primary Health Care . LAO Vientiane Integrated Urban Development

 

 

“, MAL ‘Technical and Vocational Education 72.00 °
. PAK Technical Education i - PAK Punjab Rural Water Supply and Sanitation (Sector) ~
PH {itegrated Comimunity Health - ’
PHI. Regional Municipal Development . i 30,00 4
PHI. -.: ‘Umiray-Angat.1 Transbasin 92.00

“RMI Majuro Water “Supply and Sanitation . 7 ft
>. Sathut Prakarn Wastewater Management : 150.00
Provincial Toyns Water ape and Sanitation oe sie 8 es A ae

 

    
   
    
   
   
   
 
    
     

: Subtotal nS {

 

: Thitd Road Improve

+ Rural: Access Roads,

eo PRO! 'Second, Yantai Port
"PRG. Hebei, Expressway:

PRG: ‘Liaoning Expressway
Second ‘Telecommunicatians

‘Second Regional, Roads (Sesto!
Saigon Port’

eee ‘Subtotal .,

    

 

  

 

 

. Taraation Regendy Hotéls

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

      
     

BHU Bh ‘ 600 (Codi! nds) IND (ndiel,INO (ndonesial, KAZ (Bazaliétan, :

eye BAN (Bangladesh), CAM (Cainbodial, PRC
Mongsle) NEP (Nepal, PAK Balin,

© KGz. (Kyraye Republic), LAO (Leo. People's Den
neo SRI Gri aril), THA (Table 13
LOAN APPROVALS BY COUNTRY AND BY SOURCE OF = FUNDS", 1995
(Amounts in $ million)

 

Country tee a OCR ADE TOTAL %

 

 
 
     
  
  
 

   

Afghanistan *; oy - - Bangladesh _ 245.60 4.46
Bhutan. 7.50 . 0.14
Cambodia’ ; 45.10 0:82
China, People's Rey 1,201.00 21.82

 
    

Cook Islands
Fis
India’
Indon

     
   
 

3.00 0.05

  
 

  
  

630.00
1,055.66

    
  

100.00
40.00

 
 
 

93.00
72.00

 
    
  
 

9.20

 
  

84.00

     
 

 

4049.50 “1,454. 5,504.39

   

 

 

“a Includes loaris to private sector without governmentTable 14

DISTRIBUTION OF LENDING AMONG DEVELOPING MEMBER COUNTRIES, 1968-1995

Percentage of Value of Loans Approved in Period

 

 

 

 

Regional” Ree @ 3 Pe

 

 

 

1968-1972 1973-1977 1978-1982

Country OCR ADF OcR ADF OCR ADF
Afghanistan - 2.6 - 71 - 0,9
Bangladesh - - 0.5 27.3 - 32.8
Bhutan - - mi = = >
Cambodia - 0.8 - - China, People's Rep. of > - - - - Cook Islands - 2 - - 0.1
Fiji 0.6 - 0.1 = 0.8
Hong Kong 2.9 17 - 0.8 ~
India - - - =
Indonesia - 34.6 17.2 45 28.4 24
Kazakhstan ~ =. = > - Kiribati - - - 0.2 Korea, Rep. of 26.2 1.8 20.9 18.4
Kyrgyz Republic = * - - - ~
Lao PDR - 2.2 = 08 = Li.
Malaysia 10.6 1.6 10.9 - 9.6
Maldives - % = - oa Marshall Islands “ = - = '
Micronesla, Fed. States of - - Mongolia - : = - - Myanniat oS + 0.3 13.6 Nepal 0.3 17.7 - 91 Pakistan : +89 9.0 12.8° 19.2 5.1:
Papua New Guinea = : 71 0.8 2.2 0.8
Philippings gg se BBE 21,2 12 19.1
Singapore ' : » 12.1 1522 14 = Ll
Solomon Islands fee 2 gst a 1.0: ts
Sri Larika : Ly {i = ‘8.4 See
Taipei,China oo T38) neal = fs
Thailand i 7, fe 2g “08 “16,0

4 ‘Tonga eS a ae! meee eons 9.2 wis
Vanuatu, \ te oboe. BaMeasd 2p SS beh Los =
Viet Nam : . a gS S : " 5.0% 02 3.0 4
Western Samoa : : eon i eS a 2.6: = 14 : ~ 0.71983-1987 1988-1992 1993-1995
OCR ADF OcR ADF OCR ADF Country
_ - Afghanistan
0.2 21.3 Banglades
a 0.3 Bhutan
< 19 “Cambodia
32.6 - be China, People’s Rep. of
mm Cook Islands «
15.8
27.9
13
1.2
0.1
gi
8.5
: 9.3
- 3 Viet Nam
- O.1 _ Western Samoa. m Regional
100.0. 100.09". 100.0" 100.0 100.00 8." . TOTAL
6,755.7. 14,017.8° 3,929.1 ~ Loan Approvals ($' million)

 

  

 

221,TOTAL.

a OOF

Table 15 =
PROJECTS INVOLVING COFINANCING IN 1995
{Amounts in $ million)

en

 

 

 

   
   
  
  
 
 
 
   

  

 

 

Bank Loan
Amount of Sources of
Project Country OCR ADF Cofinancing Cofinancing
Road Improvernent® Bangladesh - 137.50 82.00 JICA
Rural Electrification Bangladesh - 50.00 15.00 OECF
Small-Scale Water Resources Development
Sector Bangladesh - 82,00 10.40 IFAD
6.80 Netherlands
Nonformal Education Bangladesh - 26.70 3.80 spc
10.50 World Bank (IDA)
Islam Cement Ltd. Bangladesh 18.50 - 8.70 DEG
4.00 AFIC
Qitathe Thermal Energy and
Environmental Improvement PRC 165.00 - 55.00 Market institutions”
Ping Hu Oil and Gas Development PRC 130.00 - 120.00 EXIM
72.00 EIB
60.00 France
Gas Transmission and Distribution indonesia 218.00 - 58.00 EIB
. 195.00 EXIM
Power Development and Efficiency
Enhancement Indonesia 337.00 - 127.00 OECF
Vientiane Integrated Urban Development —_ Lao PDR - 20.00 2,71 JICA
Champassak Road Improvement Lao PDR - 48.00 70.00 JICA
Taragson Regency Hotels Limited® Nepal 8.00 - 2.83 AFIC®
. 3.00 Market institutions®
Natisnal Air Navigation Development Mongolia - 24.00 5.00 JICA
Pat Feeder Cangl R Rehabilitation and :
Improveinent: Pakistan se » 117,00 28.55... IFAD
WAPDA Twellt Power (Sector)? . , ,. » Pakistan. 125.00." <" a 2.00 NIB
Bs ©2000 °* NDF
Pinar Setter Ineetiaton Loan Pakistan 216.00. .°.- World Bank
, Forestiy Sector i Pakistan 15,56.° </ “(Netherlands
National Drainage (Gector)--., Pakistan 285.00... World Bank (IDA)
: : ; “ts : $00.00: ©!" OECE.
Airport Developmint® 8) + Philippines. ; 1.207. OECF rt
“Regional Municipal Developmeit : Philippines Sa eO 8 ‘AUsAID!
Integrated Cornmuinity Health Philippines 15.20° °° 2 AusAID
Northem Luzon Transmission pe a ¢ f is
* and ‘Gerieration °°" Philippines ~ ‘244,00 viexcf EXIM Ea of
ones weet : ee 27.80 KWo
ish i “109. 50: _ World Bank :
oe Pa! feed 142.00. Market Institutions
~ Second Regional Roads iséctor . Thailand |. 150.00 OECE..’:
a el 150.00... World Bank
: Sarit Praliarh Weastevatet Management | Thailand £70.00 2)". OECF .
2,482,058 ee

 

   

Bank Tien apbrowed in 1989
Bank Joan apptoved In 199

  

‘ Goinplementary inancitig Scheme.
: Bank loan approved in 1985.
Bei losin approved in 1991.Table 16 : neg fo
PRIVATE SECTOR INVESTMENTS APPROVED IN 1995,
{Amounts in $ million)

 

 

Total
; Equity Bank Complementary
Country : eA e -. Investment Underwriting Loan Funds Loan : Total

 

 

BANGLADESH. °
_ sam Cement Ltd

: . INDIA

AIG Indian ‘Seeidia Equity Furid'and: =
AIG Indian Equity Management Co:

Debt Market Instizutions::."".

. SBLCapiral Markets

 

196.881Table 18
PRIVATE SECTOR INVESTMENTS BY COUNTRY’*, 1983-1995

 

 

 

 

     
 
 
  
 
  

 

 

(Amounts in $ million)
: Equity Invest- Total
i Number of ments and Equity Bank Complementary
! Country Operations Loans Lines of Equity | Underwriting Funds Loans Total
5 Bangladesh 5 36.50 911 - 45.61 7.00 62.61
' China, People's Rep. of 4 50.00 17.30 = 67,30 ~ 67.30 ; :
| Fai 1 — 0.25 2 0.25 a 0.25 a
: India 20 135.70 — 79.54 - 215.24 5.00 220.24 ~ a
i Indonesia 12 82.00 17.65 6.00 105.65 63.50 169.15 4
{ Korea, Rep. of 3 - 8.96 - 8.96 - 8.96 4
' Malaysia if - 2.00 - 2.00 - 2.00
i Nepal 3 13.05 3.26 - 16.31 5.83 22.14
F Pakistan 28 209.80 19.01 4.32 233.13 64.90 298,03
" Philippines 16 147.90 30.15 = 178,05 47.50 225.55 afi
i SriLanka 5 1.00 5.82 - 6.82 - 6.82
4 Thailand 6 31.46 21.82 5.00 58.28 ~ 58,28
Regional 42 35.00 132,34 25.20 192.54 - 192.54
‘TOTAL’ 116 742.41 347.20 40.52 1,130.13 193.73 1,323.86

 

 

a, Excluding facilities cancelled and withdraw,
b Amounts may not total due to younding. * .

© Table 19 oy fey So, .
PRIVATE SECTOR INVESTMENTS BY SECTOR? oa
(Amounts ia § million) n 
 
 
  
     

  

1995 Approvals

  
  
  
   

   

 

      

se . Banls *; <a ‘ Bank.) |. Complenientary \:
Investments. - Private: Insti’ “ Total Investments iiancing Schem: 1:
ES Banks/.' tional. Project ay i

       

     

. Now ‘ Asviount' , ‘Investors, . Investors Cost No; ... Aiount

  

Financing, Insurance, Leasing
” Business Services: “1:
Finaidcial Institutions
Insurance
Leasing
Manufacturing Sector oe
Textile; wearing apparel and leather
Chemicals, ‘petroleum, Coal, rubber
and plastic products, :
Cement and ceramics ‘
Fabricated metal prodticts, electrical
machinery and apparatus’. :
Radio, television and communication
os équipinent. and apparatus: cou
Infrastructure |. :
Electricity, Gas and Steal.
Transport and Storage: :

       
    
   
 
   
    
 
 
 

 

 
 

  

 
 

  
   
      
     
    
  
 
  
     

 

eas a6. 8t
“4180-6 S165
1187

     

    

Telecornmunications ">

, Others: we : pag Se

** Agribusiness fee a a 6:78 er +
Mining. 13.75; .22.00

    

 

i
Ht
iTable 20

CONTRACTS AWARDED AND DISBURSEMENTS UNDER EFFECTIVE LOANS®, 1968-1995
{As of 31 December 1995)

{Amounts in $ million)

ti i tt ey NG

 

 

Cumulative Cumulative Cumulative
Effective Loans Contracts Awarded° Disbursements’
Percentage of Percentage of
Year No. Amount? Amount Curnulative Amount® Cumulative
Effective Loans. Effective Loans
1968 4 20 4.5 23 18 9
1969 13 67 13.5 20 9.3 : 14
j 137 54.4 40 26.4 19
404 115.0 : 28 75.1 19
: 271.5 39 136.2 20
5, 45 282.7 28
470.2 wa 29
832.1 al
1,158.7 “41
1,514.9 ae

1977.1 46.Table 21

NUMBER OF LOANS AND PROJECTS APPROVED AND UNDER ADMINISTRATION,

PCRs CIRCULATED, PROJECTS COMPLETED, LOANS CLOSED AND PPARs CIRCULATED IN 1995
(As of 31 December 1995)

 

 

 
 
  
 
  
 
  
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 

 

   

Cumulative Cumulative Cumulative Cumulative Cumulative Cumulative No. of
No. of No. of No. of No. of No. of No. of Projects Under
Country Loans Effective Projects Blended Supplementary Cofinanced Administration®* "
Approved" Loans Approved” Loans Loans Projects As of 31/12/95 ai
Afghanistan 9 8 8 - i 2 - a
Bangladesh 121 114 113 3 5 49 42
Bhutan 11 10 11 - - 5 4 i
Cambodia 5 3 5 2 - 1 4
China, People’s Rep. of 48 38 48 - - 10 39
Cook Islands 9 8 9 = - 1 4
Fifi 12 12 12 - = 5 2 ekg
Hong Kong 5 5 5 - - - - ve ta
India 41 36 40 1 - 13 33 # he |
Indonesia 206 201 191 12 2 47 66 t
Kazakhstan 3 3 2 - 2 - 2 to
Kiribatl 5 5 5 - - 1 1 i
Korea, Rep. of 79 719 79 - - 8 1
Kyrgyz Republic 2 1 2 - - 2
Lao PDR 36 34 33 . = 3 18 17
Malaysia 74: 72 72 1 1 9 th:
Maldives: 6. 6 6 - - 2 2
Marshall Islands : y@ 5 6 - ~ - 5
Micronasia, Fed. States of 1.4 i 1 | i.
Menigolia. ..’ ; » 10 10 10: ¢ Le
Myanmar: i) 7 ca) 32. 28. |; 2
egal a
Pakistan , 21
Papua New Guinea! i 4 woe
» Philippines: : 13
Singapore . ; : =
Solomon, Islands ;
‘Bide Tg TE TO Ee Me
~ Taipel,China |. 512 ri st TB eh, Poe
. Thailand: oe ety he ZO ‘7 68 . 6% : 2°
Teh face) eee oe 43% “
Vamuiatir.” oe fe cae 5. te
Vieb Namo io) orc “2 20 18° 2
: Westein Sainoa : vk 25: Oye
Regional ese oe E ade

 

 

    
  
  

 
  
     

; signittig:. tA OR CREE as is eh 2 ae

’b Blended loatis are’ courted a3, on : J 1 y ce Loaris are hot cotinted as separate projects:
Jes projects/loans which, have been approved but still active loans, fully disbursed private sector loaris without government guarantee

ill inder administration, and excludss projects/loans wwely financed from other solitces. ns =e : wee 2 cyl

8 which were physially completed in 1995. =u : ‘ z

 
 
 

 

entation A

 

 

 

       

296No. of Cumulative .. . No. of No. of No. of No. of
Loans Under = No. of PCRs. Projects Loans PCRs PPARs Bhs
Adminisiration®:.- Circulated. Completed Closed Circulated Circulated Country
As of 31/12/95 ° ~ Prepared’: : - in 1995% in 1995 in 1995 _ in 1995

 

Afghanistan
Bangladesh
“Bhutan! *
ise Cambodia.
. China, People's Rep: of

, 4 : iy y 8 B

| eg aes ‘ : “: ; Philippines
| UR CS ec : : : i : 5 5 sngapore ane
oe

Met Nam’.
Western Samoa
Regional

 

a TOTAL.Table 22

AMOUNTS OF LOANS APPROVED, CONTRACTS AW.

{As of 31 December 1995)

(Amounts in $ million)

Cumulative Loan

Cumulative Net

ARDED AND DISBURSEMENTS

Contracts

Cumulative
Contracts
Awarded”

 

     

35,005

 

 

 

 

Country Amounts Approved” _ Effective Loans” © Awarded in 1995" " — As of 31/12/95
Alghanistan 95.10 27.90 0.00 34,21
Bangladesh 4,693.21 4,281.62 307.69 3,310.03
Bhutan 51.46 41.54 4.70 33.17
Cambodia 142.67 98.25, 28,12 71.78
China, People’s Rep. of 5,276.70 3,971.78 748.64 2,394.42
Cook Islands 18.67 15.87 0.26 11.29
Fiji 121.10 113.47 1.48 113.45
Hong Kong 101.50 94.50 0.00 94,50
India 5,817.30 4,973.51 658.77 3,008.41
Indonesia 12,144.59 10,487.59 416.35 6,823.60
Kazakhstan 160.00 160.03 82.31 82,34
Kiribati 4.90. 3.83 0.25 3.80
Korea, Rep. of 2,323.33 1,853.57 0.01 1,865.65
Kyrgyz Republic 80.00 40.25 28.23 28.23
Lao PDR 554.74 480.78 57.24 339.28
Malaysia 1,921.24 1,367.84 67,31 1,131.07
Maldives 33.88 36,39 5.22 32.00
: Maéshall Islands 31.05 23.29 0.75 5.77
_ Micronesia, Fed. States of , 6.50 6.88 0.00 0.00
Mangolia:’ 251.30 256.16 74.51 162.69
peer 530,86 460.37 0,00 418,42
“Nepal 1,211.18 * - 1,085.49 37.87 806,49
Pakistan. . 8,355.44 7,663.74. 404.97 . 6, 513, 89.
; “Papua New Guinea, 545.72 526.19" 9.64 : 430, 57.
"Philippines 5,770.90 4,684.61 156.06 3,508.88
Singapore. > 481.08. 144.44 0.00 "130.22
» Solomon Islands ABB1e-. * 87.61 0.00 37.10",
ai Lanka. 1,778.33: 1,620.58 118.44 94°
+, Taipei, Chita 100.39- fof 9114 0.00
: Thailand 3,474. 25. t 2,646.94 85.53
Tonga. fos > 42.89. , 40,81 6.51
2 Vanuata.”.> 19.25": 20.37... 1,02
"0 Viet Nam 679,08: 472.07 : 136.00
“Westem Sémnba © R998 AE 86.94 0.51
Regional 35.00% oa. 0.00

 

 

2 ides spetial aisielagde loans and
so walt the exchange rate prevailing wil

(i) foF Countries with
to procurement: da
(i) for edtiniries ‘with active joan, the

“adjusted upon completion of disbursement. °
a: Exeludiig privet sector Toans without sovemment guar

    

3,438.38% of Cumulative.
* Contracts Awarded ©: i
to:Cumulative ‘Net | ‘" Disbursements “<>: Bo 0° Cumulative Net:
Effective Loans * in 1995 SE od Effective Loans

0.00
279.17
3.49

35,93
558.27
0.42

9.60
0.00
600.49

710.03
63.67
0.25

6.58
34.00
58.10

47.40
461
2.79

0.34
49.86
0.00

58.76
490.09
17.61

237.43
0.00
0.41

87.35
0.00
162.44

5.49
1.02
48.25 ~

5.11
8.35

3,587.01EB 220

 
 
  
 

Table 23 ae SRS af “oy
DISTRIBUTION OF CONTRACTS AWARDED BY COUNTRY OF ORIGIN® ve /
ORDINARY CAPITAL RESOURCES. . Ee eS 3 os

 

     
 

   
   
 
  
  
   
  
 
  
 
 
 
  
   
 
  
 
  
 
  
  
  
   
 
    
 
 
  
  
   
   
 
  
 
 
  
  
  
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
   
 
 
  
 
  
 
    
 
  
 
   
   
  

1967 =1976 4977 = 1986. “1987 - 1995

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Goods, Related . Godds, Related ©... “2 Goods, Related

Country Services & Consulting Services & ‘Consulting < / Services & ‘Consulting

Civil Works Services Civil Works Services “Civil Works Services

% % % 8% EE %

Afghanistan 0.00 0.00 0.00 9.00. 0.00 0.00
Australia 1.15 3.91. 1.43 2.46 © 2.15 3.83
Austria 2.38 0.84 0.57 0.30 : _ 0.27 0,35
Bangladesh 0.00 0.00 0.00 003° * 0,00 9.00
Belgtum 0.22 0.53 0.49 0.04 0.52 0.00
Bhutan 0.00 0.00 0.00 0.00 0.00 0.00
Canada 2.19 2.29 0.91 6.79 0.92 4.35
China, People's Rep. of 0.00 0.00 0.00 0.00 ‘ 8.21 0.00
Cook Islands 0.00 0.00 0.00 0.00 0.00 0.00
Denmark 0.13 1.94 0.29 2:91 0.16 “ 148
Fij 0.09 0:00 0.24 0.00... 0.19 0.03
Finland 0.05 0.00 0.04 0:31 0:50 0.14
France 3.78 6.05 2:02 2:98..." iu 4.96 4,93
Germany UST, 10.36 4.79 5,74 6.75
HongKong 0:60 0.00 1.65 1.29 0.10
India 1.45 3.35 0.67 9.00 L17
Indonesia 0,00 0.00 8.54 17.68 27.38
Italy 3.36 11.06 1.35 3.49 2,52
Japan 42.33 7.33 22,82 12.09 7.86
Kazakhstan 0.00 0.00 0.00 0.00 0,00
Kiribati 0.00 0.00 0.00 0.00 0.00
Korea, Rep. of 9.67 1.31 16.74 7.09 0.89
Kyrgyz Republic 0,00 0.00 0,00 0.00 0.00
Lao PDR 0.00 0.00 0.00 0.00 0,00
Luxembourg 0.00 0.00 0.00 0.00
Malaysia . 3.32 0.17 4.86 3.32
Maldives 0,00 0.00 0.00 0,00
Marshall Islands 0.00 0.00 0.00 0.00
Mongolla 0.00 0.00 0.00 0.00
Myanmar 0.00 0.00 0.00 0.00
Nepal 0.00 0.00 0.00 0.00
Netherlands a 2.37 Bee B20 aad 0.90 0:59
New Zealand . : 0.17 1:42 0.42 0,10
Norway AB) ORB » 0,00 :0.03.
Pakistan ae 0.01 0.00 : 0:57
Papua New Guinea : 0:00 0.00 0.25
Philippines , 1.14 0.94 8.43
Singapore 0.56 0.00 1.53
Solomon Islands . 0.00 0.00 0.00
Spain : 0.00 0.00 0.00
Sri Lanka 0.00 , 0.00 0.00
Sweden 0.57 0.13 0.54
Switzerland 1.91 1.07 1.51
Taipei,China bit 0.09 1.70
Thailand 2.28 0,00 6.94
Tonga 0.00 0.00 0.00
Turkey 0.00 0.00 0.00
United Kingdom . 4.03 3.61 2.76
United States 6.94 41,40 7.01
Uzbekistan “2. 0,00 Hes G00 «1 0.00
Vanuatu : "0,00 si s-s2 -10.00 S28 0.00
Viet Nam. see 25.0100 * * 20,002 7.000 28
Western Samoa SER OOO" 22 O00 oe: 0.00...
TOTAL “2100.00. 100.00 100.00
TOTAL VALUE (§ million) “1,151.814 3 2 731,448
a. Based on US$ value’ equivalent of contract.* Viet Nam

 

 

BB 232

  
  
    
   
  
  
  
 
 
  
 
 
 
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
 
  
  
  
   
 
 
  
  
   
  
 
 
  
    
  
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
   
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
   
   
  

Table 25 oon a
DISTRIBUTION OF CONTRACTS AWARDED BY COUNTRY OF ORIGIN?”
ORDINARY CAPITAL RESOURCES AND ASIAN DEVELOPMENT FUND COMBINED

 

 

                 
     
    

1967 - 1976 oS 1977-1986. ee 1987 ~ 1995
Goods, Related Goods, Related my * Goods, Related
Country Services & Consulting Services & Consulting ' Services & Consulting
Civil Works Services Civil Works Services Civil Works Services
% % % % . % %

Afghanistan 0.00 0.00 0.12 0.00 0.00 0.00
Australia 1.84 4.56 1.23 2.87 1.85 3.95
Austria . 1.96 0.59 0.49 0.21 0.24 0.21
Bangladesh ~* 9,40 0,00 » LOL » 0.32 5.02 1.55
Belgium 0.21 0.38 0.52 0.04. 0.48 0,00
Bhutan 0,00 0.00 9.00 0,00 0.06 0.00
Cambodia 0.00 0,00 0.00 0.00 0.11 0.00
Canada 1.90 7.04 0.78 6.98 0.75 3.54
China, People’s Rep. of 0.00 0.00 0.00 0.00 7.34 9.00
Cook Islands 0.00 0.00 0.01 0.00 0,01 0,00
Denmark O11 1:64 0.45 1.97 0.23 1.34
Fiji 0.10 0,00 0.18 0.00 0.12 0,03
Finland 0.40 0,00 0.05 0:64 0,39 0.18
France 3.11 4.25 1.80 2.85 1.73 4,18
Germany 8.87 14:00 4.89 3.49 5.14 6.52 .
HongKong 0.54 0.00 1.31 0.32 Lil 0.06 : |
India 2.00 2.84 2.52 3.22 6.68 1.42 Be
Indonesia 0.00 0.00 5.93 7.09 12.71 18.50 4
Ttaly 3.79 9.41 1,81 3,03 2.65 2,90
Japan 41.67 11.44 23.65 13.41 9.90 6.20
Kazakhstan 0.00 0.00 0.00 0.00 0.09 0.00
Kiribati 0.00 0,00 9.00 0.00 0,00 0.00
Korea, Rep. of 8.93 1.46 13.32 3.40 142 1.33
Kyrgyz Republic 0.00 0.00 0.00 0.00 0.00 0.00
Lao PDR 0.00 0.00 0.02 0.00 0.26 : 0.03
Luxembourg 0.00 0.00 0.00 0.00 0.00 0.00
Malaysia : 2,81 0.88 3.29 0.77 2.55 O81,
Maldives 0,00 9.00 0,01 0.00 0.00 0.00
Marshall Islands ©! * 0.00 0.00 0.00 0.00 . 0.00 0.00
Mongolia i 0.00 - 0.00 9.00 * 0.00 0.05 0,00
«Myanmar 0,00 9.00 0.26 0:00 0.05 0.00
Nepal ee 0,15 0.00 2,75 50. 18 1.07 0.50 .
Netherlands 2.08. 3.20 ye OL er BAB: 1.01 5.49
New.Zealand : O.24)° 0). 1.73 eos 0,55: 63 : 0.23 1.70
Norway : ee 0.133. ¢ Q.00 0:03 0,85

Pakistan 0.01" 0:00 1.95 “EO d8

Papua New Guinea 0.48 0.00 0.66 0.11

Philippines . 0.95 0.99 6.54 1.99

Singapore 1.34 0.00 1.65 0.25

Solomon Islands < ° -- 0,00 “0.00 0.09 0.03

Spain 0.00 0.00 0.00 0.00

Sri Lanka 0,00 0.04 1.02 0.11

Sweden 0.46 0.13 0.90 0.04 :

Switzerland 6, 4, 162 0.75 1.88 5.96 1.63

Taipei,China 1,58 : 9.10 1.21 2,18 0.84

Thailand 2.17 0.06 5.41 0.08 2.31

Tonga _ 0,00 0.00 0.05 0.00 0.03

Turkey 0.00 9.00 0.00

United Kingdom 4.57 3.38 3.97

United States : 6.27 wo BLAS z 7,66"

Uabekistan AES ot Lis /0,00 : opis v0.00.

Vanuatu

Western Samoa

TOTAL VALUE ($ mi

a Based on US$ value equivalent of‘CONTRACTS AWARDED. BY COUNTRY | OF ORIGIN IN" 19

(Amounts in $:million)

Goods, Related © De Total
: Contracts
Awarded

117.292 }
10.037

3.470 |
19.219
389.114

292.359
253.976
73.875
185.122 2
0.197
79.389
0.691
62.287
22.259 |
2.070
0.000
18.779 ¢
0.069 5
72.202
11.313
7,223 §
0,087 #
7,287 §
17.086
5.641
37.430
11.702
49.225
237.002
3.017Table 27

CONTRACTS AWARDED BY COUNTRY OF ORIGIN IN 1995
ASIAN DEVELOPMENT FUND

(Amounts in $ million)

 

 

Goods, Related Total i

Country Services & % Consulting % “| Contracts | %
Civil Works Distribution Services Distribution . Awarded . Distribution

Australia 6:032 0.52 3.578 4.75 9.610 | 0.78
Austria 1.206 0.10, 0.000 0.00 1.206 0.10
Bangladesh 193.676 16,63 1.706 2.26 195,382 15,76
Belgium 2.825 0.24 0.000 0.00 2,825 0.23
Bhutan 4,576 0.39 0.013 0,02 4.589 0.37
Cambodia 15,573 1.34 0.000 0,00 15.573 | 1.26
Canada 5.912 0.51 3.072 4.07 8.984 : 0.72
China, Peaple’s Rep. of 130.251 11.18 0.000 0.00 130,251 ; 10.50
Cook Islands 0.072 0.01 0.012 0.02 0.084 | 0.01
Denmark 0.582 0,05 0.000 0.00 0.582 |°, 0,05
Fiji 0.117 0.01 0.094 0.12 0,211 9.02
Finland 0.277 0.02 0.000 0.00 0.277 0,02
France 8.883 0,76 2.042 2.71 10.925 0,88
Germany 48.521 4.17 7.128 9.45 55.649 | 4.49
Hong Kong 6.355 0.55 0:000 0:00 6.355 |. 0.51
India 21.245 1.82: 2.763 3.66 24,008 | 1,94
Indonesia 42.072 3.61 3.772 5,00 i 45,844 | 3.70
Italy 22.621 1.94 0.857 1.14 : 23.478 |: 1.89
Japan 19.041 1.64 0.902 1.20 ! 19,943 ° 1.61
Kazakhstan 20.475 1.76 9.000 0.00 : 20.475 1.65
Kiribati 0.018 0.00 0.000 0.00 0.018 0.00 ©
Korea, Rep, of 100,237 8.61 1.940 2.57 102.177 |}. 8.24
Lao PDR 22.958 1.97 0.275 0.36 23.233 | 1.87
Malaysia 3,032 0.26 0.000 0.00 3.032 | | 0,24
Maldives 0.034 0.00 0.000 0.00 0.031 0.00 Marshall Islands ts Q177 0.02 0.010 0.01 \ 0.187 3,
Mongolia “44,451 0.98 0.000 0.00 i 11.451 2.
Nepal 2 OE7B1 2.73 1.439 1.91 a 33,220 !
Netherlands » 19.180 0.02 6.183 8.20 | 6.363 pe:
New Zealand 5.130 2) 0.44 2.869 3.80 i 7,999 |
Norway 0.035. 0.00 0.000 0.00 | 0.035 |
Pakistan 208,774." 17.93. | 8,058 10.69 | 216,832 |
Papua New Guinea 8.118 = 0,70 0.212 0.28 | 8.330
Philippines 51.051 4.38. Pe 814 2.41 i 52.865
Singapore 22.335 "4,92 85343 © 0.45. i 22.678
Solomon Islands 0.000 0.00 “0,000. 0.00 i 0.000
Spain 0.256 0.02 0.000 0.00 ‘ 0.256
Sri Lanka 50.042 4.30 2.169 2.88 52.211
Sweden . 5.807 0.50 0.000 0.00 5.807
Switzerland 1,970 0.17 0.687 0.91 2.657 |.
Taipei,China 4.638 =. 0.40 * 0,000 , 0.00 4,638 |:
Thailand 21.109 » 181 0.007 0.01 21.116
Tonga 2.605 0.22 0.000 0.00 2.605
Turkey 3.510 0.30 0.000 0.00 8.510 ¢
United Kingdom 16.620 1.43 9.896 13.12 26.516 |
United States 38.893 3.34 13.422 17.80 52.315 |
Vanuatu 0.203 0.02 0.000 0.00 0.203 ;
Viet Nam 3.089 0.27 0.000 0.00 3.089 |
Western Samoa 0.156 0.01 0.142 0.19 0.298 |
TOTAL 1,164,518  1,239.923

 

 

-- 75.405

 

100.00,

Re ER NNN‘Table 28°
CONTRACTS AWARDED BY: COUNTRY OF. ORIGIN IN 995

 

Contracts

126.902
11.243
195.382
6.295
4.589
15.573
28.203
519.365
0.084
6.385
1.693
37.518
60.695
147.815
31.932
316.367
299.820
97.353
205.065
20.672
0.018
181.566

0.691 &

23.233
65.319
0.031
0.187
11.451
33.220
28.622
10.069
0.035
232.611
8.399
125.067
33.991
0.000
7.479
52.298
13.094
19.743
10.279
58.546
2.605
15.212
75.741
289.317
3.017
0.203
3.089
0.298

3,438.382Table 29

CUMULATIVE CONTRACTS AWARDED
TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE, OPERATIONS:

{As of 31 December 1995)

 

  
  
  
 

 

  

BY COUNTRY OF ORIGIN.

(Amounts in $ million) . : ‘ .
‘Bank's % Administered % Japan % Total | 7. %
Country Own Distri- Trust Distri- Special Distri- | Contracts DistriResources bution Funds bution Fund bution. Awarded | . bution
\
Afghanistan 0.000 0.00 0.000 0.00 + 0.023 0.01 . 0.023 | 0.00
Australia 45.324 10.28 15.449 10.14 27.169 11.11 87.942 } 10.50
Austria 0.120 0.03 0.000 0.00 0.000 0.00 0.120 i 0.04
Bangladesh 3.224 0.73 0.775 0.51 1.732 0.71 5.731 i, 0.68
Belgium _ 1.698 0.36 0.310 0.20 0.392 0.16 2.300 | 0.27
Bhutan 0.001 0.00 0.017 0.01 0.000 0.00 0.018 i 0,00
Carnboclia 0.015 0.00 0.000 0.00 0,000 0:00 0.015 | 0.00
Canada 30.397 6.89 9.877 6,48 20.755 “8:49 61.029 |.» 7.28
China, People’s Rep. of 1.167 0.26 0.024 0.01 0:426 0.17 1.614 | 0.19
Cook Islands 0.002 0.00 0.000 0.00 0.000 0.00 | 0.002 | 0.00
Denmark 7.454 1.69 1.810 4.19. 6,285 2.57 18.549° |. 1.86
Fiji 0.265 0:06 0.000 0:00 0.000 0.00 ; 0,265 © 0,03
Finland 2.813. 0.64 4.588 3:01 2.196 0.90 9,597 | 1.15
France 9.277 2.10 9,877 6.29 9.507 3.89 28.361 : 3.39
Germany 8.142 1.85 3.246 2.13 9.038 3.70 | 20.426 | 2.44
Hongkong 5.922 1.34 0.758 0.50 6.503 2.66 13.183 1.57
India 15.427 3.50 4.066 2.67 5.450 2.23 ; 24.943 | 2.98
Indonesia 7.150 1.62 1.268 0.83 3.645 149° 12,063 1.44
~ Ttaly 2.975 0.67 0.644 0.42 0.606 0.25 , 4,225 h. 0.50
dapan 14.444 3.28 5.654 3.71 6.455 2.64; 26.553; 3.17
Kazakhstan 0.072 0,02 0.000 0.00 9.000 0.00 | 0.072 | 0.01
Korea, Rep. of 3.698 0.84 0.985 0.65 2.621 1.07 . 7.304 |! 0.87
Kyrgyz Republic 0.019 0.00 0.000 0.00 0.000 0.00 | 0.019 ©
Lao PDR 0.094 0.02 0.000 0.00 0.330 0.13 ' 0.424 |.
Malaysia 4.388 0,99 0.097 0.06 2.180 0.89 6.665 |.
. Maldives 0.004 0.00 0.000 0.00 0.000 0.00 | 0.004
Mongolia 0.009 0.00 0.000 0.00 0.013 0.01 0.022 !:
Myanmar 0.258 0.06 0.439 0.29 0.000 0.00 : 0.697
Nepal 2.980 0.68 0.848 0.56 0.853 0.35 | 4.681 °
Netherlands 11.704 2.65 4,349 2.86 9.759 3.99 | 25.812
New Zealand 23,848: BAL 2.298 1.51 16:958": 6.94: 43,104
Norway 1.3708 0% O81 2.429 1.59» 0.972 0.40 } 4.771
Pakistan 3:965 0,90 0.107 0.07: : 3.015942 0.243 4,666
Papua New Guinea 0.353 0,08 0.000 0,00 :0.000 #0004 0.353
Philippines 22,671 5.14 7.133 4.68 5.094 “2:08 34.898
Singapore 6.316 1.43 0.000 _ 0.00 1.506 0.62 7.822
Solomon Islands 0.012 0.00 0.000 0.00 0.000 0.00. 0.012
Spain 0.410 0.09 1.289 0.85 0.000 0.00 : 1.699
Sri Lanka 3,975 0.90... . 1.064 0.70 0.820 0.34 5.859
Sweden 2.607 0.59 1.853 , 1.22 3.441 1.41 i 7.901
Switzerland 4.808 1.09 4.650 3.05 3.703 1.51 13.161 |
Taipei,China 1.000 0.23 0.068 0.04 1.993 0.82 © 3.061 bE:
Thailand 3.806 0.86 4.452 0.95 3.301 1.35 8.559 |
Tonga 0.180 0.04 0.000 0.00 0.000 0.00 0.180
Turkey 0.103 0.02 0.082 0.05 0.000 0.00 +! 0,185 |
United Kingdom 76.379 * 17.32 26.544 17.43 37.709 15.43 | 140.632
United States 86.616 19.64 34.499 22.65 49.719 20.34} 170.834
Uzbekistan 0.000 0,00... 0.000. 0.00 0.000 9.00. i
Vanuatu O.174) 0.04 -..0.000 0.00 2. 0.000. **» 0.00:
Viet Nam 0.159% 0.04... 0.000 » 0.00:2 3 0107322
Western Samoa. © 0:447 225 .2,0.10 -§:000 0,00. -..+:;-0.310::
International ‘Organiz .“Table 30° RS a :
CONTRACTS AWARDED BY. COUNTRY OF onic, 1993-1995
TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE ‘OPERATIONS

(Amounts i in $ million}

9.000

15.609

0.000

1.616

0.000

Bhut ( 0.000

i Camb ; 0.010
9.003

0.736

0.000

3.201

0.068

0.429

3.862

2.523

5.263

2.340

2.407

0.111

2.422

0.072

0.091

0.019

0.062

0.390
0.004 .

0.013

: : 0.122

: 0.360
: 2.724
3.495
0.094
0.843
0.000
2.149
1.582
0.000
0.065
1.526
1.247
0.000
0,021
aed.
0.000
0.000
22.339
31.116
0.000
0.008
0.182
0.090
1.613

 

120.948Table 31 , z
GRANT-FINANCED TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE APPROVALS, 1995

(Amounts in $ thousand) . . # . : ‘
* - ~ 2 eo m

 

 

: Project Advisory &

Country/Project Preparatory Operational

¥ 7

| BANGLADESH

\ Rural Livelihood i . 287.00 
! Forestry Sector 450.00° 
: Urban Poverty Alleviation 600.00° 
| Urban Primary Health Care 450.00 
| Third Livestock Development 598.00° Second Primary Education Sector 170,00 ~
Strengthening Sacial Forestry in the Coastal Region - 1,300,00°

- 600.00

Modernization of Land Administration
Upazila Afforestation and Nursery Development (Supplernentary) = 628.86°
Solicitation for Private Sector Implementation of the Meghnaghat Power - t # 211.00

Capacity Building of the Economic Relations Division - 220.00
' BHUTAN
‘ Conversion of the Unit Trust of Bhutan to a Commercial Bank : - 146.50
i Institutional and Financial: Development of Department of Power - 4.00.00
| ;
i CAMBODIA .
i Urban Water Supply and Sanitation 600.00% | Employment Promotion for Women 600.00 mm
l Urban Development Strategy Study. - 500,007
: Basic Education Management and Coordination - 500.00
i Institutional Strengthening of the Centre for Banking Studies and State-Owned
' Bank's Staff Training - 340.00
Extension of Project Implementation Assistance under the Special Rehabilitation
Assistance Loan - 2,600.00
Strengthening of the Ministry of Rural Development . - . 1,500.00
Developing Pldnning Capability in the Ministry of Public Works and Transport - 800.00°
Institutional Strengthening of the Department of Public Procurement - 520.00
Strengthening Capacity in Development Planning - 850.00°
Capacity Building for Technical and Vocational Education and Training - 980.00
CHINA, PEOPLE’S REPUBLIC OF
Shenmu-Yanan Railway
Anhui Fuyang Thermal, Power
Guizhou Hongjiadu Hydropower z
Hebei Zhanghewan Pumped ‘Storage: * : ' ET A i:
Liaoning and Jilin Expressways eyed
Jiangxi Highway ~
Zhejiang-Shanxi Water Conservancy aa
Xian-Xianyang-Tongchuan Environment Improvement

 

Institutional Strengthening of the National Academy for Educational Administration

Institutional Strengthening of Commercial Finance, Management and Accounting ‘
Improving Coal Efficiency and Reducing Environmental Pollution 
Symposium on Urban Transport :

Preliminary Analysis of Guizhou Hongjiadu Hydropower and Hebei Zhanghewan
Pumped Storage

Preliminary Analysis of Gansu Xiaoxia and Jiangxi Taihe Hydropower . 3 
International Conference on Financial Sector Development in Southwest PRC.

Income Distribution Study

Inland Waterways Transport Development Seminar

Coastal Environmental Protection and Institutional Assessment 
Support of Corporatization Plan Preparation for Fujian Province Electric Power Bureau. 
Preliminary Analysis of Water Resoutces Projects .

Fiscal Policy and Regulatory Framework for Social Security System Reform

dJianfengling Park Management and Biodiversity Conservation i ¢ 
Strengthening of Corporate Managerhent and Marketing and Trading Practices

 

 

 

a To be financed from Japan Special Fund (JSF). Sy ee
b To be financed’by the Government of Norway with the Bank acting as

To be financed by UNDP ‘with the Bank acting as Executing Age’

Of this ariount; $300,000 is to'be financed from JSF and $300, (000 by the. Government

: BB oss

 
  

Executing Agency,‘Project
Preparatorya 240

  
 
   

CONTINUED

 

  
  

  
    
 
  
  
 
  
  
 
 
 
 
   
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
  
  
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
  
 
  
  
  
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
    
  
     

 

 

= Project. >: Advisory &
Country/Project Preparatory... ° Operational
INDONESIA 2
Family Health and Nutrition : 600;00 Communicable Diseases Control . , 800.00 Second Airports Development , 600.00* Belawan Port 595.00* Balikpapan, Banjarmasin and Gresik Ports Development 900.00* Development of Madrasah Aliyahs . 600.00 Participatory Assessment of Agricultural Technology 535.00° Regional Development Account _ 100.00 Water Loss Reduction (Sector) no 100.00 Preparation of Metropolltan Medan Urban Development “ 100. 00, Capacity Building in Human Settlements Infrastructure Management _ 1,100. oo” Central Sulawesi Integrated Area Development and Conservation p 850.00?
Enhancing the Quality of Reproductive Health Care - 840.00*
A Study to Establish Gas Regulatory Frarnework a 450.00
Strategic Planning for Power Sector Study - 590,00
- 310.00

Geothermal Power Development Study

Institutional Strengthening to Monitor Poverty Reduction - 600.00"
Supporting Indonesia's Participation in Regional Cooperation in Development Planning - 185.00 |
- 600,00

Water Tariff Structure and Financial Policies of Water Enterprises
Macroeconomic Planning and Management

KAZAKHSTAN
Preparation of a Road Rehabilitation Program 600.00* ~
Industry and Enterprise Sector Reform 600.00* Rehabilitation and Environmental Improvement of the Almaty No. 1 Heat and Power
Station 556,00" ~
Education and Training Sector Study - 895.00°
Strengthening the Implementation af Agriculture Sector Reforms - 600,007
Aid Coordination and Management ~ 600.00.”
Financial Sector Advisory = 600.00
Study on Market Reform in the Agriculture Sector . - 1,044.00
- Study on Rural Credit and Savings s - 470.00
KIRIBATI 2 :
Sanitation and Public Health § 2. i ieee « 577.00" =
Marine Export Development / . 4 Be te 100.00°
KYRGYZ REPUBLIC

 

Agricultural Credit Pilot ee 910.00? : 
Education and Training Master Plan ae Bees

Industry and Trade Sector Study’

Strengthening Environmental Institutions and Improving Procedures for Environmental
Impact Assessment

Reorganization and Strengthening of the Ministry of Agriculture and Food

Buildirig Capacity for the Formation and Management of Water Users Associations

Strengthening the Ministry of Economy

 

LAO PDR
Employment Promotion and Training 469. 90%
Secondary Towns Integrated Urban Development . 600.00¢ § a
Small-Scale Community-Managed Irrigation Sector 530.00 a
Power Transmission and Distribution 250.007 =
Strengthening the Ministry of Public Health - 800.00
Review of Banking Sector Policies and Portfolios - 74.00

Strengthening Environmental Planning and EIA Ca; pacity : 3 - > ~. 599.00°

Preparation of National Procurement Regulations for the Public Sector: - 4 : - 410.00

a To be financed from JSF. “ 4 e;
6 Of this amount, $650,000 is to be financed frog dSFand $48,000 bythe ‘Govertinient ai jerimark with the Bank sctig's as Executing Agency.

© Tobe financed by the Government of Australia with the Bank acting | as Executing Agency, . se

d To be financed by the Govemment of Debmark with the Banke as Beeutng AgelCONTINUED ca ey ee ' :

 

Second Rural Access Roads
300.00

j - Project». . Advisory &
Country/Project : Preparatory . © Operational
PAKISTAN
Bahawalpur Division Area Development 600,00* Secondary Science Education 450.007 Forestry Development in the Northern Areas 90.00 ~
250.00 
Irrigation Management

Second Soclal Action Program 100.00
Development of a Gender Data Base - 200.00
Capital Market Development - 865.00
PAPUA NEW GUINEA
Hydrocarbon Sector Policy and Strategy Study - 525.00
Small Business Development Corporation Accounting and Management
Information Systems - 255.00
PHILIPPINES :
Sixth Road 100.00 Early Childhood Development 600.007 ~
Preparation of a Second Secondary Education Development (Supplementary) 200.00 Impact Evaluation Study of Bank Assistance in the Roads Sector - 100.00
Socioecbnomic Survey for the Infrastructure Restoration Project - 50.00
Institutional Strengthening of the Commission on Higher Education - 400.00
Sustaining Health of the Working Age Population - 575.00°
Natural Gas Sales Negotiations - 100.00
Capital Market Development - 600.00
Environmental Evaluation of Swamps and Marshlands - 100.00
MWSS Privatization Support - 582.00
Water Resources Management (Angat Reservoir) - 100.00
Strengthening Hospital Standards, Licensing and Regulation - 450.00
Formation of Power Transmission Subsidiary - 500.00
_ Capacity Building for Resettlement Management in Development Projects - 100.00
Preparation of a National Transport Strategy - 1,000,00° :
Private Sector Participation in Urban Development - 500,007
SR] LANKA : Pati
Sdientific and Technical Personnel Development. ::: 400.00 
‘Southern Provincial Roads Improvement

Establishment-of a Credit Rating Ageney ys»

Support to Public Enterprises Reform in the Agriculture Sector

Impact Evaluation Study of Banik Assistance to the Industrial Crops. and
Agro-Industry Sector se :

Institutional Strengthening for Comprehensive Water Resources Management

Improvement of Contract Approval and Implementation Procedures

Tree Crop Plantation and Monitoring

Study on Financing of Social Services

THAILAND
Nongkai-Udonthani Water Supply and Sanitation ‘ 600.00° al
Bangkok Metropolitan Region Wastewater Management Action Plan and Feasibility
Study : : 600.00" Small Farmer Credit . 100.00 =
Private Sector Participation in Infrastructure Projects 100.00 600.00

Solid Waste Management Sector Plan 400.00°

Strengthening the EIA Review Process

   
  

 

a To be financed fromm JSF. ee ss 4
» To be financed by the Government of France with the Bank actirig'as ExecutiCountry/Projecti
i
i
|
|

 

 

 

 

Table 32

 

 

 

4995 LOANS THAT RESULTED FROM EARLIER BANK TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE .

(Amounts in $ million)

 

Amount:

Total

 

Year of
TA of Project
Country/Project Approval ~ ‘TA Cost
BANGLADESH
Coastal Greenbelt 1992 0.3407 29.30
Secondary Towns Infrastructure
Development Project II 1991 0.600" 82.87
Small-Scale Water Resources
Development Sector 1992 0.500" 66.00
Nonformal Education 1993 0.2505 51.00
Cammand Area Development 1992 0.441" 50.10
BHUTAN
Rural Electrification 1993 0.245" 9.50
CAMBODIA
Basic Skills 1994 0.100 25.00
Rural Infrastructure Improvement 1994 20,099 31.40
CHINA, PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF :
Second Agricultural Bank of China 1993 0.491" Hainan Agriculture and Natural
Resources Development 1993 0.593 107.51
Second Telecommunications 1994 0.282 324.00
Hebei Expressway 1994 0.560" 734.00
Liaoning Expressway 292.20
Fujian Soil Conservation and Rural
Development 1993 0.406" 163.00
Henan Power 1994 0.100 936.00
1994 0. 100, Fujian Mianhuatan Hydropower 1994 0. 100? . 721,00
1994 0.385°
Second Yantai Port 1993 0.400° 160,00
Ping Hu Oil and Gas Development 1992 0.600 866.10
INDIA :
Karnataka Urban Infrastructu‘e: 3 i i a, :
Development ses 1993° 0:600-- 132.00°°.
~ Republic of India
- Housing Development Finance
Corporation Ltd.
INDONESIA
Sulawesi Rainfed Agriculture
Development j991° * 0.600% 52.59
Rural Water Supply and Sanitation
Sector - 1992 0,600° 142.00
Gas Transmission arid Distribution 1993 0.400 590.00
Private Junior Secondary Education 1993 0.520 83.10
Farmer Managed Irrigation Systems . 1992 0.950° 44.00
Sumatra Urban Development (Sector) } 1994 0.100 . 217.00
West Java Urban Development (Sector) 117.00

A LL
a Financed by the Government of Norway.
b  Finariced from Japan Special Fund (JSF). -.

 

‘Amount of Bank
Financing

OCR

100.00

53.00
100,00
220.00
100.00

65.00
200.00

170.00

63.00
130.00

85.00.

20.00

85.00
218.00
49.00

130,00
70.00

ADF

23.40
65.00
32.00

26.70
30,00

7.50

20.00
25.10

Total Cofinancing

23,40
65.00
32.00

26.70
30,00

7.50

20.00
25,10
100.00

53.00
100,00

220.00

100.00
65.00

- 200.00

170.00
63.00

- 130.00

© 85.000".

 

Amount

of

17.20
14.30

252.00

253.00

 

 

  
   
 
  
  
 
   
  

Amount of
Financing by
Borrower

5.90
17.87
16.80

16:00
20.10Country/Project

“SUBYRGYZ REPUBLIC. °
Ue Agriculture Sector Program

LAO PDR SEs
o. -Primary'Health Care®
Vientiane Integrated Urban.Table 33

  

Project

Strengthening of Women's
i Regional Initiatives in Road

| Subregional Environmental

 

Development Policy Issues

International Conference o

in the Asian Region
1995 Special Secondment
Review of Microenterprise

Improving the South Pacifi

 

 

 

Task Force on the Role of

Study of Emerging Asia

Agency.
i d To be financed by the Gov

 

 

we a. To be financed from Japan Special Fund.
b Of this amount, $25,000 is to be’financed by the

 

REGIONAL TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE ACTIVITIES, 1995.

NGOs
Safety

1995 ADB/APO Joint Program

Monitoring and Information System

Training-cum-Workshop on Statistical Integration
1995 Seminars on Project Implementation and Administration, and Training of Trainers Prograra
Study of the Brunei Darussalam-Indonesia-Malaysia-Philippines East ASEAN Growth Area

in Asia

Regional Workshop on Solar Power Generation Using Photovoltaic Technology
Emerging Trading Environment: Economic Implications for DMCs (Supplementary)
Study of the Impact of Bank Assistance in the Health and Population Sector

Fifth Seminar on International Finance

n Information Systems for Transition Economies

1995 Audit Training Program for Institutional Strengthening of Supreme Audit Institutions

Scheme
Development in Selected DMCs

Workshop on Demand Side Management in the Power Subsector
Evaluation of Bank Assistance to DMCs for Benefit Monitoring Evaluation
oe Asian Development Bank/OECD Development Centre Forum on Asian Perspectives:
Regional Cooperation and Integration in Asia
Regional Forum on Indigenous Peoples Policies for Development Assistance in Asia
11th Biennlal General Meeting of the Association of Development Re
of Asia and the Pacific (ADIPA)

ic Economic and Social Database (SPESD)

Institutionalizing Legal Training in Cambodia, the People’s Republic of China, Mongolia and Viet Nam
Study on Social Sector Issiies in Asian Transition Economies

Eighth Workshop on Asian Econdmic Outlook

Subregional Electric Power Forum - Greater Mekong Subiegion |:
International Conference on Coalbed Methane. Development and Utilization
Ie: Meeting of Telecommunications Officials - Greater Mekong Subregion. y
Regional Study on Urban Infrastructure Finance: a wage

Regional Program to, Train Trainers in Tourism in the Greater Mekong Subregion
Cofinancing of the Third Meeting of the Expert Group on Financial Issues of Agenda 21

Greater Mekong Subregion-Infrastructure Improvement: Ho Chi Minh to Phnom Penh Highway
1996 Regional Seminars on the Use of Consulting Services £
Review of Sustainable Exploitation of Coastal Fish Stocks in Asia

Multilateral Development Banks ;

Upgrading of Accounting and Financial Reporting Practices of Pacific Power Utility Entities
Capacity Building of DMCs in the Economic Analysis of Build-Own-Operate-Transfer Projects

Water Resources Development and Management
Joe” Economic and Policy Analyses in Pacific DMCs

{sae « Tobe financed by the Govetnment of Norway with the Bank acting as Executing Agency. Sy

ernment of Australia with the Bank acting as Executing Agency.”

search and Training Institutes

 

 

 

    

Amount

($ thousand)

580.0
600,0°
143.3
1,000.07
55.0
600.0
1,800.0
85,0
175.0"
250.0
300.0
107.0°
95.0

130.0
220.0
300,07
220.0%
450.0

90.0
100.0°

20.0
50.0
450.0
600.0
160.0

World Bank and $25,000 by the Government of Netherlands with the Bank acting as Executing

  
  

 

 

B08Project:Table 34

GRANT-FINANCED TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE
1994, 1995, 1967-1995"
(Amounts in $ thousand)

 
  

 

 

 

APPROVALS BY COUNTRY AND REGIONAL AC

 
 
    

 

 

199 4 1995
i ne ain
Bark JSF Other : Bank
Country No. Financing Financing Sources Total % _ No. Financing
Afghanistan - - - - - - - Bangladesh 18 1,395.00 2,954.00 3,292.40 7,641.40 5,94 Mt 601.00
Bhutan 1 400.00 a - 400.00 0.31 2; 546.50
Cambodia ll 2,243.00 2,096.00 750.00 5,089.00 3.95 11. 5,460.00
China, People’s Rep, of 41 3,646.00 13,076.00 715,00 17,437.00 13,55 45 4,902.50
Cook Islands 4 = 1,612.00 + 1,612.00 1:25 3 1,442.00
Fiji 3 450.00 1,050.00 - 3,500.00 1.47 4 1,150.00
India 8 2,461.00 900.00 3,000.00 6,361,060 4,94: 14 1,475.36
Indonesia 19 3,335.00 5,934.00 1,000.00 10,269.00 7:98 20 3,035.00
Kazakhstan 4 839.00 = - 839.00 0.65 9 2,714,00
Kiribati ‘2m 440.00 885.00 = 825.00 0.64 2 Korea, Rep. of - - - - - - - Kysayz Republic 5 1,156.00 1,200.00 - 2,356.00 1,83 7 2,185.00
Lao PDR 7 1,000.00 1,200.00 = 2,200.00 171 13 1,331.00
Malaysia 4 386.00 700.00 - 1,086.00 0.84 6 1,296.00
Maldives 2 300.00 600.00 300.00 0.70 3 400.00
Marshal! Islands 4 297.00 1,202.00 - 1,499.00 1.16 4 1,301.00
Micronesia, Fed. States of 4 646.00 635,00 1,281.00 1.00 5 1,551.00
Mongolia 13 184.00 5,018.00 2,000.00 7,202.00 5.60 i 2,790.00
Myanmar - - - - ~ - - Nepal 9 848.00 2,022.00 - 2,870.00 2.23 6 765.00
Pakistan 13 3,405.00. ° 1,400.00 80.00 4,885.00 3.80 8 940.00
Papua New Guinea 6 1,146.00 1,170.00 - 2,316.00 1.80 2 780.00
Philippines 10 800.00 4,146.25 - 4,946.25 3.84 17 2,732.00
: \
Singapore = 7 = = = - : - Solomon Islands 2 430.00 350.00 = 780,00 - =
Sri Lanka 9 499.60" ~ 3,786.00 =. 4,285.60 9 300.00
Taipei,China 2 = . = = a - Thalland 5 690.00 1,484.00 = °°: 2,174.00 12 1,913.00
Tonga 6 100.00 769.00 74.00 943.00 2 850.00
Tuvalu. 2 = 626.00 - 626.00 0.49 4 2 100.00
Vanuatu 2 100.00 50.00 = 150.00 0.12 i - 7
Viet Nam iy 2,289.20 6,178.00 me 8,467.20 6.58 i 15 3,890.00
Western Samoa 4 ca 700.00 75.00 775.00 0.60 £ 4 750.00
i
Subtotal 235 - 29,485.80 : 61,243.25 10,986.40 101,715.45 79.04 : 247 © 45,200.36
Regional 55 13,265.90 2,757.00 10,952.00 26,974.90 20.96 : 50 11,621.88
TOTAL 100.00. 56,822.23

       

a Excluding technical assistance financed unt
> Cumulative data are adjusted 10: exclude tech

Bos

  

der Joans, which 2

 

290-, 42,751.70 64, 000.25 21,938.40 128,690.35

luded in the Bank's Ioan data.
nical assistance. rojects withdrawn by governments. fyJSF
Financing

2,985.00

4,030.00
12,469.40

450,00
3,400.00
7,570.00
3,251,00

577.00

3,816.00
4,048.00

600.00
. 685.00
1,405.00
1,715.00
3,187.00
2,004.00
1,915.00
2,325.00

3,581.00
2,200.00
600.00
310.00
7,204.00
552.00
70,879.40
8,217.00

79,096.40

1,928.86

300.00
1,037.00

100.00
585,00
450.00

100.00

600.00

999.00
999.00

1,000.00

9,198.86
158.00

9,356.86

5,514.86
546.50

9,790.00
18,408.96
1,442.06

1,700.00
5,460.36
11,055.00
5,963.00
677.00

6,001.00
5,979.00
1,896.00
1,085.00
3,705.00
4,265.00
5,977.00
2,769.00
2,855.00

780.00
6,057.00

3,881.00
4,713.00
1,450.00

410.00

11,594.00
1,302.00

125,278.62

19,996.88

145,275.50Table 35

GRANT-FINANCED TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE J

(Amounts in $ thousand)

 

 

  
 
 
   
  
   

 

  

 

 

 

1994 1967-1995

Sector Na. Amount % No. % | No. Amount  %
Agriculture and Agro- .

industry 45 22,978.45 22.59 48 25,533.76 20.38 | 825 335,837.48 35,80
Energy 25 11,411.00 11.22 34 13,566.00 10.83 ! 286 106,809.35 11.38
industry and Nonfuel

Minerals 9 3,863.00 3.80 5 3,135.00 107 31,286:70 ,
Finance 15 5,640.00 5.55 16 5,631.36 288 a 49,887.80:
Transport and 3 a o| rae

Communications 37 18,501.00 18,19 31 14,512.00 332 128,645.95) |
Social Infrastructure 47 16,981,00 , 16.69 61 30,281.00 : “Ag6 462,077.97 17.28
Multisector = £ a 3 4,220.00 al -14,644,00. 186.
Others 57 22,341.00 21.96 49 28,399.50 22,67 | 269 109,032.10 11.62 :
TOTAL ° 2835 101,715.45 100.00 247 125,278.62 100.00 | 2,474 - 938,221.35 100,00

a Excludes technical assistance loans (which are included in loan dala) and regional activities.

b Cumulative data adjusted to exclude technical assistance grants withdrawn by governments,Table 36
- NET TRANSFER OF RESOURCES To DMCs: (ocR), 1983-1995
(Amounts in $-milion)

“1983-1987 1988-1989 3 * 4991: 2S qg99gs" | 199:
Country "2g Average’ ta — me * : et Lies

: Afghanistan
Bangladesh
Bhutan:

Cambodia aime 252 e

  
 
    

Table 37
NET TRANSFER OF RESOURCES TO DMCs (apr) 4
(Amounts in $ million)

 

    

    
 
 
 
 
  
  
 
  
  
   
  
  
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
  
  
  
  
  
 
 
 
   
  
  
 
 

  

i 1983-1987 i988 (994. 1992-1993... 1994... 1995
Country Average 9 “eS Oe ad

 

 

Afghanistan 0.78 150-134 «482. 1.32 = - = -!
Bangladesh 111.64 208.52 300.13 279,80 243.84 287.56 183.27 322.42 208.30
Bhutan 1.25 3.38 2,97 3,66 4.24 2.14 1.38 201 | 2,90 i
Cambodia - - - * ~ 438 585 1186 3561!
China, People's Rep, of - = - = - - = - ~
Cook Islands 0.31 - 0.29 0.74 1.14 4,63 1.28 0.98 0.28
Fi # - ~ - a - ee = - te
Hong Kong . = = = - a Be 4 > =~
India - - 2 = i me SPE ay i:
Indonesia 5.08 54.92. 53,59 106.98 - 13.48 35.61 45.03 28:59 32.59
Kazakhstan - a: = - = = 2 S e
Kiribati 0.21 0.26 9:02 0.67 0.37 0.33 -0.05 0.15 0,19
Korea, Rep. of 0.32. 034 «9-082 052-081 7 - - Kyrgyz Republic agr 7 = = - - - - {+ 33.94
Lao PDR »* 8.20 4.77 30.22 39.32 25.42 13.43 36.03 19,61 | 53.33 |.
Malaysia 096 0.28 0.27 0.27 0.27 0.27 0.26 0.66 0.39 >
Maldives 0.47 0.86 0.64 4.06 415 3,96 2.25 112: 4,28 |
Marshall Islands “ = - x = ~ 0.25 0.89 1.22 i 2.76 5:
Micronesia, Fed. States of - - - - - - ~ = * 0.34 |
Mongolia = = - = 10.00 15.90 10.95 20.99 49.11
Myanmar 24.84 31.46 20.90 1.74 -2.32 5.32 -8.67 -15,58 -16.07 |:
Nepal ‘29,73 35,52 73.20 57.04 66.66 34.16 54,25 B75: 87.78 tis
Pakistan oo 97.94 174.05 199.28 201.01 256.00 152.61 210.94 389.37 287.44
Papua New Guinea 3.43 8.31 6.79 38,20 50.43 - 8.33 19.74 20.31 8.96 |:
Philippines 13.84 “31.51 41.09 116,76 91, ag “74,66 89.53. 43.12 41.70
Singapore 0.27, 20,30... 0.29 -1.40 Vs oe > Solomon Islands 1,59 5,39 3.465 1.98 “0. Bh 0.68 / 2:36 “O17 -0.38 |
Sri Lanka 31.15 57:09 68.70" 101.82 199.45 “418.38 66,52
Taipei,China - = ss" ae oy = Thailand : 8.64 1,99 0.09 -1.28 178 2.00 -2,37
Tonga 0.62 1.32 0.48 0.80 0.64 1.22 5.12
Vanuatu 0,37 0.74 3.02 2.54 .. 4.83 0.37 . SH 0.80
Viet Nam 0,44 -0.23 = =z = = 0.11 45.30
‘Western Sarnoa 1.42 1.04 1.25 9.85 13.00 2.41 2.87 2,53 x 2,60
Regional = - ~ = me ~ - a5 ~

4;
TOTAL 334.55. 618.48 803.87 962.41 918.33 747.64 755.06 976.80 900.56 i

pt
Note: Net Transfet of Resources defined as disbursements less repayments and intereste/charges recelved. Includes private sector’ loans ant
investments. * i :'. Table 38
‘NET ‘TRANSFER OF RESOURCES TO DMCs ‘8
(Amounts in $ million)

1983-1987 1988

Atghanistan
Bangladesh’.FINANCIAL RESOURCES
: Table 39 give eect 8
. STATUS OF ASIAN DEVELOPMENT FUND RESOURCES*
{Amounts in $ millon; as of 31 Decernber 1995) _ pee
Change in. 1995 ‘
t Valued.as of © o Exchange Rate Net :
31/12/94 Addition Adjustments" | Change
USSEquiv. USSEquiv. USSEquiv: USSEquiv.
i Contributed Resources! : A i
| Australia 791,85 67.97 -35.20 32.77
| Austria 146.69 ios 12,81 12.81
} Belgium 132.02 - 10.87 10.87
! Canada 902,56 ~ 24.85 24.85
Denmark 138,14 10.14 14.36 24.50
{ Finland 77.45 211 7.02 9.13
_ France 679,61 - 61.86 61.86
: Germany 1,160.98 - 93.39 93.39
fF se Hong Kong 4.13 0.75 - 0.75
i Indonesia 4.96 - = =
1 Italy 317.28 7: 9,01 9.01.
| Japan 10,345.05 531.24 326.86 204,38
| Korea, Rep. of 19.15 3.75 a 3,75
{ Nauru 1.15. =: - =
: Netherlands 433,94 26.25 37.49 63.74
{ New Zealand 39.49 3,05 “0.76 3.81
f Norway 95.26 8.35 7.26 15.61
! Spain 78.10 - 6.66 6.66 |
ho Sweden 149.63 15.98 19.98 35.96 |
Jou Switzerland 225.35 - 31.54 31.54 |
a Taipei,China 12.75 3.75 - 3.75 |
if Turkey 65.96 - - - |
, United Kingdom 484.79 - -3,88 3,88 |
United States 2,087.91 - ~ s Total Contributed Resources 18,394.19 673.34° +28.07 645.27
‘i Additional Resources |
Set-Aside Resources 69.50 - 1,27 1.27
Transfers from TASF 1.27 = 0.07 0.07
Unrealized Investment. Holding Gains (Losses) -2.87 3.75 - 3.75
Accuraulated Translation Adjustments! 113.22 . 6.86 = -6,86. |
Accumulated Surplus * 869.51 78.26 - 78.26 |
Total Additional Resources 1,050.63 75.15 1.34 76.49 i
Total Resources thie : 119,444.82 748.49. ° -26.73 721;:76 |
Less; Amounts Disbursed and Outstanding 11,355.329 1,021.92 -69:41 952.51" |
Total Undisbursed Resources 8,089.50 273.43 42.68. +230.75
ADF Lending Limitation!” ‘ “9,877,42 :
Less; Amounts Committed but Undisbursed: ; eae al
Denominated in SDRS .:- 5,990.44 139.18 "126103... 265.214
_ ADF Lending Headroom! 1,886.98 |
‘ |
Advance Commitment Authority 212,42" ‘

 

 

2,099.40

 

Total Commitment Authority

       

Note: Figures may nat add dueto rounding.

 

Relates to balances as of 31 December 1994 and additions during 1995.
Valued at the rate of $1.48649 per SDR as of 31 December 1995.
Amounts are adjusted for exchange rate changes and do not necessarily correspond to the initial ADF contributions of individual countries.

Accumulated Translation Adjustments are the cumulative changes, up to the end of the repo
Net of $1.47 million allowance for possible lasses a5 of 31 December 1994.

Net of $1.94 million allowance for possible losses as of 31 December 1995,

Equal to.a proportion, referred to s the gearing ratio, of tote! undisbursed resources.
tHe total value of the basket of contributed resources (o the total value of the basket of committed but undisbursed loans.
Equal to the difference. between the lending limitation and the amount of Committed but undisbursed loans...
Equal to 85% of projécted ADF investment income and loan:repaymenits during the period 1995

ting period, in the US dellar value of net assets crea

re rean ee

   
      

—_

 

 

Boss

  

 

Excludes $213.17 milllan representing amounts of ADF contributions paid but not yet available for loan commitments as of 31 Decernber 1998. ::"
Represents amounts mace avallable for loan commitments toward the fourth tranche of other contributions to the Fifth ADF Replenishment (ADF Vi).

“The geering ratio'is the ratio, determined on the basis of a US

 
 
    
 
   
  
   
 
 
  
    
   
 
   
     
   
 
 
   
   
 
 
 
  
 
    
  
 
 
 
   
     
  
 
  
 
  

Valued as of
31/12/95

USSEquiv. SDR Equiv.”

824.62
159.50
142,89
927.41
162.64
86.58
741.47
1,254.37
4.88
4,96
326.29
10,549.43
22.90
1.15
497.68
43.30
110.87
84.76
185.59
256.89
16.50
65.96
480.91
2,087.91

19,039.46 1

70,77
1.34
0.88

106,36
947.77

1,127.12

20,166.58
12,307.88

7,858.75
7,655.16
6,256.65

1,399.51
at

h

1,399.51

 

584.74
107.30
96.18 ;
623.89 , ‘
109.41
58.24
498.81 |
843.85

3.28
8.34
219.50

7,096.87

15.41
0.77
334.80
29.13
74.59
57.02
124.85
172.82
1110 |
44.37 |
323.52:
1,404.59”

2,808.33 |

7158 |
637.59 |

758.24

13,566.57
8,279.79

5,286.78
5,149.82
4,208.34

941.48

941,48Table 40° See SS
: TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE SPECIAL FUND
ea. US Dollar Equivalent; as.of 31 December “4995)®

Contributor ‘ aeTable 41 eS cet rE Neel * Sdn te : :
JAPAN SPECIAL FUND > BF ag a See* arte ate : :
Statement of Operations and Changes i in Net ot Assets a a “4 i scm So asl og
(Amounts in $ million} cas ei. aes S te : ee : . Se

1988-1989 1990 1991 1992 1993° 1994° 1995 Total

 

Contributions committed 94.7 63.4 32.9 ° 69.4 88.6 100.1 104.9 554.0

 

Translation adjustments -8.0 58 Tt 1.2 17.7 35.7 ‘ -8.9 54.6
86,7 69,2 44.0 70.6 106.3 135.8 96.0 . 608.6
Revenue 44 7.0 9.9 79 78 73

 

Total 91.1 76.2 53.9 78.5 114.1 143.0
Expenses 12 16.0 22.8 27.5 89.8 56.9
Exchange gain (loss) - = -0.5 +0.1 30.1

Increase in Net Assets tna 799 60.2 30:6 50.9 24.2 86.4

 

a Prior years’ amounts have been restated to conform to the 1995 presentation.Appendixes

1. Summary of Budget for 1996

2: — Resolutions of the Board of Governors Adopted in 1995
3. Board of Governors

4. Board of Directors and Voting Groups

5. Committees of the Board of Directors

6. Management, Principal Officers and Senior Staff

7. Former ADB Presidents and Vice-Presidents

 

258
259
260
262
263
264
267

ZoF aAPPENDIX 1

SUMMARY OF BUDGET FOR 1996
Internal Administrative Expenses
{Amounts in $ thousand)

i ll

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

1995
After 1996
Budget Transfers® Actual? Budget
|. BOARD OF GOVERNORS 709 709 633 468
I, BOARD OF DIRECTORS 7,953 7,953 7,590 8,138
Salaries 3,849 3,868 3,868 3,997
Benefits 2,137 2,137 1,996 2,085
Relocation 324 583 583 396
Business Travel 485 485 462 450
Staff Services 658 681 681 710
Inspection Panel 500 199 - 500
Ill. OPERATIONAL EXPENSES 139,722 140,135 140,135 149,814
Salaries 68,642 69,981 69,981 72,843
Benefits 47,044 48,728 48,728 50,021
Staff Development 1,575 1,131 1,131 1,967
Relocation 2,765 2,914 2,914 2,905
Consultants 7,500 6,950 6,950 8,993
Business Travel 11,970 10,214 10,214 12,835
Representation 226 217 217 250
IV. ADMINISTRATIVE EXPENSES 26,830 26,830 26,391 29,581
Communications 2,985 3,096 3,096 3,093
Office Occupancy 6,019 . 5,587 5,456 6,727
Library 621 643 643 641
Office Supplies 1,559 1,699 1,699 1,998
Office Equipment 2,695 3,061 3,061 2,920
Contractual Services 3,913 3,675 3,424 4,356
Insurance 580 611 611 675
Depreciation 8,329 8,329 8,273 9,028
Miscellaneous 129 129 128 143
Vv. GENERAL CONTINGENCY 1,752 1,339 a 1,880
SUBTOTAL 176,966 176,966 474,749 189,881
Special Separation Program 11,300 11,300 8,980°
0 EEE
TOTAL 188,266 188,266 183,729

ES nrc

a An amount of $413,000 was allocated out of the General Contingency to the Budget Category "Operational Expenses’. ‘Transfers were made between Budget
Items within the other Budget Categories without exceeding the amount of each Category.

b Excludes: (1) $401,000 as provision for severance pay; (2)-$147,000 as provision for accumulated compensated absences; (3) $9,000as bank charges pertaining
directly to ADF and JSF; (4) an adjustment of $4,436,000 on account of pension costs computed in compliance with U.S, Financial Accounting Standards (FAS)
87; and (5) an adjustment of $6,876,000 as provision for post-retirement benefit In compliance with FAS 106; (6) an adjustment of -$500,000 as provision
for accrued resettlement/repatriation allowances in compliance with FAS 112 which are included in the total internal administrative expenses of $192,251,000
as shown in the financial statements. After deducting $7,000 directly charged to the Scholarship Program, the total internal administrative expenses have been
distributed as follows: OCR — $108,303,000 (Ref. OCR-2); ADF - $82,863,000 (Ref. ADF-2}, TASF ~ $2,000 (Ref. TASF-2), and JSF — $1,076,000
(Ref. JSF-2), ‘

¢ Of the total program cost of $8,980,000, an amount of $2,550,000 was charged to 1994.

BB essAPPENDIX 2

RESOLUTIONS OF THE BOARD OF GOVERNORS ADOPTED IN 1995

etter ere re cg

Resolution No.

235

236

237

238
239
240

Subject Date Adopted
Procedures for the Election of Directors 4 May 1995
at the Twenty-Eighth Annual Meeting

Place and Date of Forthcoming Annual Meetings ‘ 4 May 1995
Financial Statements and Independent 5 May 1995
Auditors’ Reports

Allocation of Net Income 5 May 1995
Development Status of the Republic of Nauru 16 Aug 1995
Amendment of Section 7(B){a) of the By-Laws 14 Dec 1995

tte

259 iBB 260

BOARD OF GOVERNORS
{As of 31 December 1995)

APPENDIX 3

KLAUS-JURGEN HEDRICH (Germany) (Chairman)
Vv. A. JAFAREY (Pakistan) (Vice-Chairman)
CAO SY KIEM (Viet Nam) (Vice-Chalrman}

MEMBER GOVERNOR ALTERNATE GOVERNOR
AFGHANISTAN Ahmed Rashid* Abdul Qadeer Fitrat®
AUSTRALIA Ralph Willis Gordon Bilney
AUSTRIA Andreas Staribacher® Hans Dietmar Schweisgut
BANGLADESH Mohammad Saifur Rahman M. L. Majid
BELGIUM Ph. Maystadt J. P. Arnoldi ;
BHUTAN Yeshey Zimba Sonam Wangchuk
CAMBODIA Keat Chhon Chanthol Sun
CANADA André Ouellet Thomas Bernes
CHINA, PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF Dai Xianglong® Chen Yuan
COOK ISLANDS G. A. Henry Alistair Rutherford
DENMARK Ole Loensmann Poulsen Peter Bruckner
Fil Berenade Vunibobo Jone Y. Kubuabola
FINLAND Mauri Eggert Kirsti Eskelinen
FRANCE dean Arthuis® Jean Lemnierre”
GERMANY Klaus-Jiirgen Hedrich® Klaus Regling
HONG KONG Donaid Tsang? Joseph Yam
INDIA Manmohan Singh M. S. Ahluwalia
INDONESIA Mar‘ie Muhammad J, Soedradjad Djiwandono
ITALY Antonio Fazio Mario Draghi
JAPAN Masayoshi Takemura Yasuo Matsushita
KAZAKHSTAN Alexander S. Pavlov!? Kairat M. Smagulov'?
KIRIBATI Beniamina Tinga Bureti Williams
KOREA, REPUBLIC OF Woong Bae Rhal? Lee Kyung Shik}S
KYRGYZ REPUBLIC Kemelbek Nanaev Askar Sarygulov
LAO PEOPLE’S DEMOCRATIC REPUBLIC Xaysomphone Phomvihane** Pany Yathotou
MALAYSIA Anwar Ibrahim Clifford F. Herbert
1 Appointed in April. 8 Succeeded Hans-Peter Repalk in January.
2 Appolnted in April. 9 Succeeded N.W.H. Macleod in September.
3 Succeeded Ferdinand Lacina in May. 10 Succeeded Akezhan Kazhegeldin in March.
4 — Appointed in October. Louise Frechette resigned in June. 11 Succeeded Serik Akhanov in March.
5 Succeeded Zhu Rongji in August. 32 Succeeded Jae-Hyong Hong in December.
6 Succeeded Alain Madelin on 26 August. Alaln Madelin succeeded 13 Succeeded Myung-He Kim in August.

Edmond Alphandery on 2 August. i 14 Succeeded Khamxay Souphanouvong in August.
} Succeeded Christian Noyer in November,CONTINUED

 

MEMBER GOVERNOR ALTERNATE GOVERNOR
| MALDIVES Ismail Shafeeu Adam Maniku?®
i MARSHALL ISLANDS Ruben R. Zackhras Amon Tibon
| MICRONESIA, FEDERATED STATES OF Aloysius J. Tuuth Lorin Robert
i MONGOLIA Demchigjavyn Molomzhamts : S, Ochirpurey
| MYANMAR Win Tin Antt Kyaw?
j NAURU Vinson Detenamo Kinza Clodumar
NEPAL. Ram Sharan Mahat!? R. B. Bhattarai
NETHERLANDS Gerrit Zak J.P. Pronk
NEW ZEALAND William F. Birch Murray Hom
NORWAY Asbjoern Mathisen Knut Vollebaek
PAKISTAN V. A. Jafarey Aftab Ahmad Khan
PAPUA NEW GUINEA “Chris Haiveta Gerea Aopi
PHILIPPINES ® Roberto F, de Ocampo Gabriel Singson
SINGAPORE Richard Hu Tsu Tau Ngiam Tong Dow
SOLOMON ISLANDS Christopher C. Abe Manasseh Sogavare
SPAIN Javier Gomez-Navarro Apolonio Ruiz Ligero
SRI LANKA Chandrika Bandaranaike Kumaratunga D. Y. Liyanage?8
SWEDEN Mats Karlsson Malin Karre
SWITZERLAND Nicolas Imboden Rudolph Dannecker
TAIPELCHINA Yuan-Dong Sheu!? Mu-tsai Chen??
THAILAND Surakiart Sathirathai? Chatu Mongo! Sonakul?2
TONGA Kinikinilau Tutoatesi Fakafanua?> (to be advised)"*
TURKEY Ayfer Yilmaz?> M. Billent Ozgiin
TUVALU Koloa Talake Tine Leuelu2®
UNITED KINGDOM Lynda Chalker N, B. Hudson
: UNITED STATES Robert Rubin?” : Joan E. Spero
: UZBEKISTAN Bakhtier Sultanovich Khamidov?® Rustam Sadikovich Azimov 29
: VANUATU _ Willie Jimmy Antoine Pikioune
: VET NAM Cao Sy Kiem Le Van Chau

4 WESTERN SAMOA Tuilaepa S. Malielegaoi Epa Tuioti
:

 

Succeeded Khadeeja Hassan in February. 23 Succeeded J.C. Cocker in May.

Appointed in Novernber. Thein Aung Lwin resigned in October. 24 Kinikinilau Tutoatasi Fekafanua resigned in May.
Succeeded Bharat Mohan Adhikary in December. 25 Succeeded Osman Birsen in January. .
Succeeded A. S. Jayawardena in November. 26 . Succeeded Mose Saitela in Asril.

Succeeded Kuo-shu Liang in April. 27 Succeeded Lloyd Bentsen in January.

Succeeded Chung-Ying Lee in October. 28 Appointed in August.

Succeeded Tarrin Nimmanahaeminda in July. 29 Appointed in August.

Succeeded Aran Thammano in October.

261 BiAPPENDIX 4

BOARD OF DIRECTORS AND VOTING GROUPS
(As of 31 December 1995)

ee

DIRECTOR ALTERNATE DIRECTOR MEMBERS REPRESENTED! |
Daniel Besson Hermann Escher Belgium; France; Italy; Spain; Switzerland |
Vicente R. Jayme A. B. Soomro. Kazakhstan; Maldives; Marshall Islands, |
Mongolia; Pakistan; Philippines |
Shigeo Kashiwagi Soichi Yoshimura Japan j
Yong-Keun Lee” Lloyd Fernando Republic of Korea; Papua New Guinea;
Sri Lanka; Taipei,China; Vanuatu; Viet Nam |
Li Ruogu® Zhou Yuequn ‘ People's Republic of China
Peter McCawley John Russell* Australia; Cambodia; Hong Kong;

Kiribati; Federated States of Micronesia;
Nauru; Solomon Islands; Tuvalu

Syed Muhamad Abdul Kadir® Thein Aung Lwin® Malaysia; Myanmar; Nepal; Singapore;
Thailand
Julian H. Payne Pieter C. Verheugd” Canada; Denmark, Finland;

Netherlands; Norway; Sweden

Soegito Sastromidjojo Colin Pratt Cook Islands; Fiji; Indonesia;
Kyrgyz Republic; New Zealand; Tonga;
Western Samoa

Hans-Jiirgen Stryk John Millett® Austria; Germany; Turkey; United Kingdom
K. Venkatesan? Karnaluddin Siddiqui Afghanistan; Bangladesh; Bhutan; India;
‘ Lao People’s Democratic Republic
Linda Tsao Yang N. Cinnamon Dornsife United States '
A
1 Inalphabetical order within each group.
2 Succeeded Kyung-Woo Kim on 30 October.
3 Succeeded Che Peigin on 16 March.
4 Succeeded John S. Evers on 6 February.
5 Succeeded Soe Thwin on 1 July.
6 Succeeded Syed Muhamad Abdul Kadir on 18 October.
7 Succeeded Raimo Anttola on 1 September. |
8 Succeeded Teoman Kerman on 1 duly. |
9 Succeeded P. K. Lahiri on 1 July.

a 262APPENDIX 5

| COMMITTEES OF THE BOARD OF DIRECTORS
{As of 31 December 1995)

re errnyenesenenenn

AUDIT COMMITTEE BUDGET REVIEW COMMITTEE

| Peter McCawley (Chairman) Daniel Besson (Chairman)

Vicente R. Jayme

 

Shigeo Kashiwagi
Syed Muhamad Abdul Kadir Yong-Keun Lee
dulian H. Payne Li Ruogu
Soegito Sastromidjojo K. Venkatesan
Hans-diirgen Stryk Linda Tsao Yang

ensuiteMANAGEMENT, PRINCIPAL OFFICERS AND SENIOR STAFF
(As of 31 December 1995)

APPENDIX 6

ee AT

OFFICE OF THE PRESIDENT
President
Special Advisor to the President (Administrative Affairs)

 

 

OFFICES OF THE VICE-PRESIDENTS
Vice-President (Region West) .
Vice-President (Region East) ..
Vice-President (Finance and Administration)

 

  

OFFICE OF THE SECRETARY
Secretary
Assistant Secretary .

 

 

OFFICE OF THE GENERAL COUNSEL
General Counsel .
Senior Assistant General Counsel
Assistant General Counsel.
Assistant General Counsel .
Assistant General Counsel.

   

   

 

OFFICE OF THE GENERAL AUDITOR
General Auditor .....
Assistant General Auditor .

 

 

POSTEVALUATION OFFICE

 
    

Manager (Evaluation
Manager (Evaluation Division East) ...

 

STRATEGY AND POLICY OFFICE
Chief cesses
Assistant Chie’

  

OFFICE OF ENVIRONMENT AND SOCIAL DEVELOPMENT
Chief ...
Manage!
Manager (Social Development Division}

 
 

PROGRAMS DEPARTMENT (WEST)
Director
Deputy Director .
Manager (Programs ighani i:

Manager (Programs Division West 2- Bangladesh, Bhutan; India; Nepal) ......
Manager (Programs Division West 3 - Cambodia; Lao PDR; Myanmar; Thailand; Viet Nam) .
Resident Representative, Bangladesh Resident Mission
Resident Representative, India Resident Mission...
Resident Representative, Nepal Resident Mission .
Resident Representative, Pakistan Resident Mission

  
     
 
 
 

AGRICULTURE AND SOCIAL SECTORS DEPARTMENT (WEST}
Director .......ssssscrsssssencssssssrersossseesosessesnseeensesaans
Deputy Director .
Manager {Agriculture and Rural Development
“Manager (Education, Health and Population Division)
Manager (Forestry and Natural Resources Division) ..
Manager (Water Supply, Urban Development and Housing Division!

  
  
 
  
 

INFRASTRUCTURE, ENERGY AND FINANCIAL SECTORS DEPARTMENT (WEST)
Director ........
Deputy Director

 

 

Mitsuo Sato
Tony Wan

Bong-Suh Lee
Peter H. Sullivan
Pierre Uhet

D.C. Amerasinghe
lan M. Hay

. Barry Metzger

Eisuke Suzuli
Richard Eyre
Bruce A. Purdue

. Jeremy H. Hovland?

Louis Wong
M. Kaleemuddin Haquani

Al. Aminul Islam
M.F.W. Zijsvelt
Phiphit Suphaphiphat

Shoji Nishimoto
dan P.M. van Heeswijk

Kazi F, Jalal
B. N. Lohani

. Anita Kelles-Viitanen

Noritada Morita

Ricardo M. Tan

Frank J. Polman.
Yoshihiro Iwasaki"
Nihal Amerasinghe
Bhanuphol Horayangura
Richard O. Wada

Abdul Gaffar Nasution
Chua Suay Bah

Eustace A. Nonis
Yang Weimin
Tsuneaki Yoshida
Shigeko M. Asher

. Robert C. May

dames E. Rockett

. John D. Taylor?
. Akira Seki

A TSS

1 In acting capacity,
2 Concurrently Head, Private Sector Group.

Fe 264CONTINUED

OO

Manager (Office of the Director}

 
   
 

  
 

Mumtaz Iqbal
Manager (Energy Division)...... Vladimir Bohun
Manager (Financial Sector and Industry Division) J. Antonio M. Quila
Manager (Transport and Communications Division} Ginter Hecker
PROGRAMS DEPARTMENT (EAST)
Director - Eiichi Watanabe
Deputy Director . R. Swaminathan

Manager (Programs Division East 1 — China, People’s Republic of;

Mongolia; Taipei,China) ........ ver a wieeee
Manager (Programs Division East 2 - Hong Kong; Indonesia; Malaysia; Singapore)
Manager (Programs Division East 3 - Central Asian Hepublicos Korea, Republic of; Philippines)
Resident Representative, Indonesia Resident Mission ..

     

Bruce Murray

K. H. Moinuddin
Werner M. Schelzig
Theodore C. Patterson

    

 

AGRICULTURE AND SOCIAL SECTORS DEPARTMENT (EAST)
Director
Deputy Director ....

Manager (Agriculture and Rural Development Division) ..
Manager (Education, Health and Population Division) .
Manager (Forestry and Natural Resources Division) .

Manager (Water Supply, Urban Development and Housing Division) ....

  
 
 
  
 

Dinh Xuan Vinh

Paul M. Dickie
Robustiano L. Espiritu, Jr.
William M. Fraser
Hans-Juergen Springer
Asad Ali Shah

INFRASTRUCTURE, ENERGY AND FINANCIAL SECTORS DEPARTMENT (EAST)

  
 
   
 
 

Director .. Vishvanath V. Desai®
Deputy Director . . A. Timothy Peterson
Manager (Energy Division} «PLN, Fernando
Manager (Financial Sector and Industry Division) . Charles F. Coe

Manager (Transport and Communications Division} Devinder Singh

OFFICE OF PACIFIC OPERATIONS
Chief

. Manager (Pacific Operations Division) .......
Regional Representative (South Pacific Regional Mission) .

  
  

G.H.P.B. van der Linden
Marshuk Ali Shah
M. E. Tusneem

 

PRIVATE SECTOR GROUP

Head .... .. John D. Taylor*
Manager Keon-Woo Lee

 

ECONOMICS AND DEVELOPMENT RESOURCE CENTER,
Director and Chief Economist
Resident Scholar .......
Assistant Chief Economist (Economic Analysis and Research Di
Assistant Chief Economist (Project Economic Evaluation Division)
Assistant Chief Economist (Statistics and Data Systerns Division} .

Vishvanath V. Desai?
Christine P. W. Wong
John Malcolm Dowling, dr.
dungsoo Lee

Isidoro P. David

 

  
 
 

COFINANCING DIVISION
Manager ..

 

Erkki K. Jappinen
CENTRAL OPERATIONS SERVICES OFFICE

  
  
     

Nalin P. Samarasinghe
din Koo Lee®
Willem B. Den Toom

Manager (Consulting Services| Divi ion) .
Manager (Project Coordination and Procurement ion)
BUDGET, PERSONNEL AND MANAGEMENT SYSTEMS DEPARTMENT
Director .....0.. ce
Deputy Director (Budget an
Deputy Director (Personnel) ............ee

 
 
  
 
 
  

Tsuyoshi Takahashi
Suresh A. Seshan
Claude Bemier

 

Manager (Budget and Management Services Division) A.A. Sidarto
Manager (Compensation and Benefits Division). Sandra A. Lawrence
Manager (Human Resources Division) .. Vacant

Manager (Training and Development Division) Cedric D. Saldanhe®

SS
& Concurrently Director and Chief Economist.
4 Concurrent'y Director, Infrastaucture, Energy and Financia! Sectors Department {West}.

5 Concurrently Director, Infrastructure, Energy and Financial Sectors Department (East).
6 Inacting capacity.CONTINUED

OFFICE OF ADMINISTRATIVE SERVICES
. Guo Xianzhi

K, S. Subramanian
S. Zeyaul Hoda
. Turhan K, Mangun

 
   
 
 

Manager (Facilities Manageme!
Manager (General Services Division) .
Manager (Support Services Division) .

CONTROLLER’S DEPARTMENT t
Controller... .. Magdi L. Morcos
Assistant Controller (Accounting Division) Than Win
Assistant Controller (Disbursement Division West) Ping-Yung Chiu
Assistant Controller (Disbursement Division East) George C.J. Chou

  
 
 

 

TREASURER'S DEPARTMENT
Treasurer sissies
Deputy Treasurer
Assistant Treasurer (Financial Policy Division) .
Assistant Treasurer (Funding Division) .
Assistant Treasurer (Investments Division)
Assistant Treasurer (Treasury Services Division)

Tadahiro Asami
Rip Min

Ifzal Ali

Peter Balon
delle C. Mann
David R, Parker

 
 
 
  
 
 
 

INFORMATION OFFICE

Chief Information Officer .........-. Maurice D. Bauche

".. Robert H, Salamon

  

Assistant Chief Information Officer .

 
   

OFFICE OF COMPUTER SERVICES
i John W, Thorp
Assistant Chief Vacant
NORTH AMERICAN REPRESENTATIVE OFFICE
Director .. pack sevnney «SHIRT EERE vesnnve AUN B Adare d

BB 266APPENDIX 7

FORMER ADB PRESIDENTS AND VICE-PRESIDENTS

ee

PRESIDENTS

i Mr. Takeshi Watanabe _ 24 November 1966 - 24 November 1972
Mr. Shiro Inoue = 25 November 1972 - 23 November 1976

Mr. Taroichi Yoshida _ 24 November 1976 - 23 Novernber 1981
i Mr. Masao Fujioka _ 24 November 1981 - 23 November 1989
| Mr. Kimimasa Tarumizu _ 24 November 1989 - 24 November 1993
, VICE-PRESIDENTS
| Mr. C.S. Krishna Moorthi — 19 December 1966 - 31 March 1978
| Mr. A.T, Bambawale — 1 April 1978 - 28 October 1985

Mr. M. Narasimham _ 1 November 1985 - 31 July 1988

Mr. S, Stanley Katz aa 1 April 1978 - 28 September 1990

Mr, In Yong Chung _ 1 August 1988 - 31 July 1993

Mr. William R. Thomson - 17 September 1990 - 30 June 1994

Mr. Ganther G. Schulz _ 1 April 1983 - 30 June 1995

EAS Setn=npWWOSS-SEcsesusaithtenshei

267 PeMajor ADB Publications

 

 

STUDIES AND REPORTS
Agriculture and Agro-indusiry Environment

Agricultural Development in Papua New Guinea: Policies and
Issues (1992)

Biodiversity Conservation in the Asia and Pacific Reglon:
Constraints and Opportunities (1994)

Biotechnology: Opportunities for Enhancing Agricultural
Production (Agriculture Staff Paper No. 8) (1995)

Handbook for Incorporation of Integrated Pest Management in
Agriculture Projects (1994) *

Industrial Crops in Asia (Agriculture Dept. Staff Paper No. 7)
(1993)

Mangrove Forests: A Valuable but Threatened Indo-Pacific
Resource (Agriculture Dept. Staff Paper No. 5) (1992)

Regional Seminar on Policies and Strategies for Livestock
Development (1993)

Regional Workshop on Sustainable Agricultural Development in
Asia and the Pacific Region (1992)

Sector Paper on Livestock (Agriculture Dept. Staff Paper No. 4}
(1991)

Sustainable Agricultural Development (Concepts, Issues and
Strategies) (Agriculture Dept. Staff Paper No. 1) (1991)

Tree Crop Sector Development in Indonesia
(Agriculture Dept. Staff Paper No. 6) (1992)

Tropical Tree Nuts Production in the South Pacific (Agriculture
Dept. Staff Paper No. 3) (1991)

Economy and Finance

Asian Development Bank Economic Staff Paper Series

Asian Development Bank Economics and Development Resource
Center Report Series

Aslan Development Bank Occasional Paper Series

Asian Development Bank Statistical Report Series

Asian Development Outlook (annually) ”*

Economic Policies for Sustainable Development (1990)

Economic Policies for Sustainable Development —
Indonesia (1992)

Economic Policies for Sustainable Development — Nepal (1992)

Export Finance: Some Asian Examples (1990)

Financial Sector Development in Asia (1995) ey

Fiscal Management and Economic Reform in the People's
Republic of China (1995) *

From Centrally Planned to Market Economies: The Asian
Approach, Vol. I: An Overview (1995) a

Informal Finance: Some Findings from Asia (1992) *

Key Indicators of Developing Asian and Pacific Countries
(annually) **

Mongolia: A Centrally Planned Economy in Transition (1992) **

Energy

Electric Utilities Data Book for the Asian and Pacific Region,
Fourth Edition (1993) — out of print; new edition under
preparation” .

Energy End Use: An Environmentally Sound Development
Pathway (1993}*

Energy Indicators of Developing Member Countries of ADB*

Breakthroughs in Forestry Development: Experience of the Asian
Development Bank (1995} *

Environmental Considerations in Program Lending (1995)

Environment and Development: A Pacific Island Perspective
(1992)*

Environment Legislation and Administration: Briefing Profiles of
Selected Developing Member Countries of the Asian
Development Bank (ADB Environment Paper No. 2) (1989) “

Environmental Evaluation of Coastal Zone Projects: Methods and
Approaches (ADB Environment Paper No. 8) (1991)

Environmental Loan Covenants: Helping Ensure the
Environmental Soundness of Projects Supported by the
Asian Development Bank {ADB Environment Paper No. 10)
(1992)

Environmental Loan Covenants: Principles, Checklists and
Samples (ADB Environment Paper No. 12) (1993)

Environmental Risk Assessment: Dealing with Uncertainty in
Environmental Impact Assessment
(ADB Environment Paper No. 7) (1991)

Financing Environmentally Sound Development (1994) *

How to Assess Environmental Impacts on Tropical Islands and
Coastal Areas - Training Manual (1990)

Integration of Environmental Considerations in the Program Cycle
(ADB Environment Paper No. 5) (1990)

Minimum Quality Criteria for Ecologically Sensitive Areas
(ADB Environment Paper No. 4) (1989)

Remote Sensing and Geographic Information System for Natural
Resource Management (ADB Environment Paper No, 9)
(1991)"

Industry and Nonfuel Minerals

Industrial Pollution Prevention (1994) *

Technology Transfer and Development: Implications for
Developing Asia (1995) *

Pacific Studies Series “

Cook Islands: Economic Performance, Issues and Strategies
(1995) *

Human Resource Development: Small Pacific Island Countries
(1995) *

Regional Cooperation

Economic Cooperation in the Greater Mekong Subregion:
Proceedings of the Second Conference on Subregional
Economie Cooperation Among Cambodia, People's Republic
of China, Lao PDR, Myanrnar, Thailand and Viet Nam
(1993)*

Economic Cooperation in the Greater Mekong Subregion:
Toward Implemeniation (1994) *

Growth Triangles in Asia - A New Approach to Regional
Economic Cooperation (1994) *

Guidelines for Integrated Regional Economic-cumEnvironmental Development Planning (Volumes | & Il}
(ADB Environment Paper No. 3) (1988)

rp
Copies of these publications may be obtained through the Publications Unit, Information Office, Asian Development Bank, P.O. Box 789, 0980 Manila, Philippines,
Orders may also be sent by fax to (632) 636-2640 or (632) 636-2648 or E-mail at adbpub@mail.asiandevbank.org. All are free of charge (sent via surface

mail), except those with asterisk (*).
Priced publications.

** ‘Also available directly from Oxford University Press (OUP) offices, associated companies and agents worldwide.

| 268CONTINUED

tt

Inception Meetings of the Subregional Transport Forum and the
Subregionai Electric Power Forum: Proceedings, April 1995 
Regional Seminar on Performance Evaluation in Asia and the
Pacific (1992)

Subregional Economic Cooperation: Initial Possibilities for
Cambodia, Lao PDR, Myanmar, Thailand, Viet Nam and
Yunnan Province of the People's Republic of China (1993}*

Subregional Economic Cooperation: Proceedings of the Fourth
Conference, December 1994 *

Subregional Energy Sector Study: Final Report, 1995

Subregional Transport Sector Study: Final Report, 1995

Social Sector

The Asian Development Bank and Non-Governmental
Organizations: Working Together (1995)

Critical Issues in Asian Developmeni: Theories, Experiences,
Policies (1995) **

Escaping the Poverty Trap: Lessons from Asia (1994)

Gender Indicators of Developing Asian and Pacific Countries
(1993) *

Poverty Alleviation: Insights and Strategies (1990)

Poverty Alleviation through Human Resource Development:
Some Issues (1990)

Rural Poverty in Asia: Priority Issues and Policy Options (1993)**

Rural Poverty in Developing Asia, Volume I: Bangladesh, India
and
SH Lanka (1994)*

Wornen in Development: Issues, Challenges and Strategies in Asia
and the Pacific (1994)

Education
Distance Education for Continuing Education (1994)
Education Broadcasting and Distance Education as a Strategy for
Revitalizing Education of the Disadvantaged (1990)
Education and Development in Asia and the Pacific
{Second Edition, 1991)

Education in Asia and Pacific Series 1: Lao People’s Democratic
Republic (1993}

Feasibility of Distance Education in the Philippines (1991)

Revitalizing Teacher Education: A Multi-Mode Approach for
Quality and Equitable Access for Female Teachers.(1991)

Teacher Education: The Quest for Quality (1992)

Technical and Vocational Education and Training —

Proceedings of the Regional Seminar on Vocational
Education and Training (1990)
Technology in Distance Education: Future and Issues (1990)
Using Both Hands (Women and Education in Cambodia) (1995) *

Health and Population

Guidelines for the Health Impact Assessment of Development
Projects (ADB Environment Paper No. 11) (1992)

Health, Population and Development in Asia and the Pacific
{1991)

Population Pressure and Natural Resources Management
{ADB Environment Paper No. 6) (1991)

Urbanization

The Urban Poor and Basie infrastructure Services in Asia and the
Pacific (Volumes Hil) (1991)

Urban Poverty in Asia: A Survey of Critical Issues (1994) *™

Water Supply

Managing Water Resources to Meet Megacity Needs (1993) ‘
Water Utilities Data Book, Asian and Pacific Region (1993)*
Women and Water: Domestic Shallow Well Water Supplies (1990)

Others

Disaster Management: A Disaster Manager's Handbook (1992) *

Disaster Mitigation in Asia and the Pacific (1991)*

External Shocks and Policy Adjusimenis: Lessons from the Gulf
Crisis (1994) *

A Generation of Growth (1992)

Project Quality: An Agenda for Action (1994) *

DOCUMENTS AND OTHER PUBLICATIONS

 

Agreement Establishing the Asian Development Bank

ADB Annual Report

ADB Business Opportunities | (monthly, by subscription) *

ADB Employment Opportunities

ADB Partners in Development: Bangladesh (1994); Indonesia
(1995); Nepal (1995); The Pacific (1995); Pakistan (1994)

ADB Ready Reference

ADB Research Bulletin (bi-anaually)

ADB Review (English, French, Gerrnan and Japanese)

ADB Theme Paper Series

Asian Development Bank: Technical Assistance Activities

Asian Development Bank Young Professionals Program |

Asian Development Review (bi-annually, by subscription) *

The Bank's Medium-Term Strategic Framework (annually)

Basic Facts, DMCs of ADB

Basic Information (English, French, German and Japanese)
Benefit Monitoring and Evaluation (1992)

Cofinancing and Guarantees: The Bank's Strategy and Modalities

- Developing Mongolia's Legal Framework: A Needs Analysis (1995)

ELC Handbook: Checklists, Commentary, Drafting Guide and
Samples for Use in Drafting Environmental Loan Covenants
(1993)

The Environment Program of the Asian Development Bank:
Past, Present and Future (1994)

Environmental Assessment Requirements and Environmental
Review Procedures of the Asian Development Bank (1993)

Financial Profile

Framework and Criteria for the Appraisal and Socioeconomic
Justification of Education Projects (1994)

 

* Priced publications.
ae

Also available directly from Oxford University Press (OUP) offices, associated companies and agents worldwide.CONTINUED

i

Framework for the Economic and Financial Appraisal of Urban
Development Sector Projects (1994)

Guide on Prequalification of Civil Works Contractors (1987)
(Reprinted May 1992)

Guidelines for Disbursement of Technical Assistance Grants (1992)

Guidelines for Incorporation of Social Dimensions in Barik
Operations (1993)

Guidelines on {mprest Funds and Statement of Expenditure
Procedures (1986)

Guidelines for Procurement Under Asian Development Bank
Loans (1989)

Guidelines on the Use of Consultants by Asian Development Banik
and Its Borrawers (1979)

Handbook on Bid Evaluation (Revised January 1994)?

Handbook for Incorporation of Social Dimensions in Projects
(1994)

Handbook on Management of Project Implementation (1986)
(Revised 1988)

Handbook on Policies, Practices and Procedures Relating to
Procurement Under Asian Development Bank Loans
(Revised February 1990)*

Handbook on Problems in Procurement for Projects Financed by
the Asian Development Bank (1987}*

Handbook for Users of Consulting Services
{Fourth Edition, 1993)°

Law and Development: An Asian Bibliography

Law and Development at the Asian Development Bank

Law and Development Bulletin

Law and Development: Seminar Proceedings

Loan Contract Awards and Loan Disbursements Profiles?

Loan Disbursements Handbook (1990)

Loan and Technical Assistance Statistics Yearbook ®

Loan, Technical Assistance and Private Sector Operations
Approvals (monthly)

Procurement of Goods, Works and Services Under Projects
Financed by the Asian Development Bank (1993)

Projects Profiles for Commercial Co-Financing (quarterly)

Report of the Task Force on Improving Project Quality
(January 1994)

Sample Bidding Documents — Procurement of Civil Works
(Second Edition, December 1993)?

Sample Bidding Documents ~ Procurement of Goods (Revised
November 1992)?

Sample Bidding Documenis: Civil Works (Small Contracts) {1994}

Sample Bidding Documents - Supply, Delivery and Installation of
Goods (Revised November 1992)

Summary of Proceedings of the Annual Meeting of the Board of
Governors

 

VIDEO PRODUCTIONS®
Cornorate Productions Documentaries
ADB: Catalyst for Development Cash in Hand
Business Opportunities with the ADB Cities Under Siege

The Challenge of Development; A Career at the ADB

Consulting Opportunities with the ADB

Environmental Planning and Management in the ADB Project
Cycle

Pacific Profiles: ADB Projects in the Pacific

River of Change: Peace Dividends Along the Mekong
A Stake in the Forest

Viet Nam Water Paradox

eS TS
a Publications may be obtained from the Central Operations Services Office, Asian Development Bank, P.O. Box 789, 0980 Manila, Philippines ($10.00

each).

b For member government instltutions only. These publications may be obtained from the Central Operations Services Office.
¢ All videos are In English. Please specify PAL VHS or NTSC VHS. For each videotape, a $10 shipping and handling fee will be charged.

& 270Absorptive capacity, 39, 68, 110, 115, 133-134
Administration, 141-144
Administrative services, 143
Administrative Tribunal, 142
Appeals Committee, 142
Appointment of Vice-President, 141
Budget, 15-16, 143-144
Compensation and benefits, 142
Confidentiality and disclosure of information, 14
Human resource management and development, 141
Information technology program, 143
Internal administrative expenses for 1995, 143
North American Representative Office, 142-143.
Administrative expenses, See Budget
Agriculture and agro-industry sector, 83-84, 95, 110
Agriculture and natural resources research, 72.
Asian Development Bank
Administration, 141-144
Administrative services, 143
Annuai Meeting, 7, 13, 73. 77, 90
Appeals Committee, 142
Appointment: of Vice-President, 16, 141
Board Committees. 14-16
Country highlights, 95-115
Highlights, 1966-1995, 11
Information technology program, 143
Inspection function, 7, 14, 68-69
Internal audit, 15, 138-139
Law and Development, 89-90
Net incozne, 9
Operational priorities and policies, 67
Policy decisions, 7, 13-14, 68-72
+Policy papers, 7, 14, 71-72
Prestdent, 13, 16, 141
Record, table, 10
Regional cooperation, 67, 77
Reerganization of the Bank, 7, 15, 78
Impact on operations, 81
Staff compensation and benefits, 142
The Bank in 1995, 7-9
Asian Development Fund (ADF), 7, 13, 123-126
ADF and TASF replenishment (ADF VD}, 123-124
ADF and TASF replenishment (ADF VI), 9
ADF commitment authority, table, 124
ADF loan disbursements and repayments, 124, 128
ADF loans, 70, $2, 124
ADF portfolio position, 125
ADF revenue and expenses, 125
ADF VI instruments of contribution, 123
Concessionary lending. 7, 124
Future resource requirements, 124
Status of ADF resources, table, 254
Audit Committee, 14-15

 

 

Index

Bangladesh

Country highlights, 95-96
Econoznic developments, 43, 51-54, 63-64
Economic indicators, 204-211

Bank Operational Data, 212~233,

1967-1995 grant-financed technical assistance approvals
sector distribution, 84
1995 loans by category, chart, 9
1993 loans by sector, table, 7
1995 net transfer of ADB resources to DMCs, 93
ADF loans, 82
Agriculture and agro-industry, 83-84
Agriculture and agyo-indusiry loans ard TA grants, 84
Bank operations, table, 81
Cofinancing arrangements, chart, 90
Cofinancing and guarantee operations, 90-92
Economic research and development studies, 92-93
Energy loans and TA grants in 1995, table, 84
Energy sector, 84
Environmental activities, 87~B9
Finance sector, 85
Grant-financed TA from other sources, 92
Industry and nonfuel minerals sector, 85
Law and development, 89-90
Lending and investment modalities, 1993-1994, table, 81
Loan approvels, chart, 7
Loan approvais: three-year moving averages, 1968-1970 1993-1995, 8, 215
Loan disbursements, chart, 9
‘Loan projects approved in 1995
Total cost end source of finance, 85
New operations approved in 1995, chart, 83
Number of loan projects and programs, chart, 8
Private sector activities, 89
Private sector Joens, equity investments
and underwritings, chart, 89
Reorganization of the Bank
Impact on operations, 81
Resource transfer, bank's role in, 92
Resource transfer to DMCs, table, 92
Sectoral distribution of project approvals
1992-1994, chart, 88 .
Sectoral distribution of project approvals, charts, 87
Social infrastructure, 85-87
Social infrestructure loans
and TA grants in 1995, table, 86
Sources of 1995 loans, tab'e, 85
Technical assistance, 82
Technical assistance by sector: 1990-1994, 83
Technical assistance by sector: 1995, chart, 82
Technical assistance grants, chart, 9
Transport and communications, 87

  

 

271ANNUAL REPORT 1995

Transport and communications loans
and TA Grants in 1995, table, 87
Bank priorities, See Asian Development Bank
Beneflt monitoring and evaluation, 134
Bhutan
Country highlights, 96
Economic developments, 51-54
Economic indicators, 204-211
Board Committees, 14-16
Audit Committee, 14-15, 138-139
Budget Review Committee, 15-16
Board of Directors, 13-16, 141, 262-263
Commlttees of the Board of Directors, 14-16, 263
Directors’ visits, 16
Policy papers discussed by the Board in 1995, 14
Board of Governors, 13, 259-261
Functions, 13
Resolutions of the Board of Governors, 13, 259
Borrowings, 8, 119-121
Borrawing and liability management strategy, 119
Borrowings, 1995, table, 120
Borrowings: 1986-1995, chart, 119
Budget
Budget for 1996, 15-16, 143-144, 258
Internal administrative expenses, 143
Budget Review Committee, 15-16

Cambodla
Country highlights, 97
Economic developments, 48-51, 63
Economic indicators, 204-211
Capacity building, 38-39, 67, 74, 79, 87-88, 96, 100-101, 103-104,
. 134, 136
Capital
Capitalization, 117
Fourth General Capital Increase, 117
Capltal market, 33, 50, 70, 79, 85, 89, 98-100, 419-120
Capital market development, 38, 70, 79, 98-99, 119
Central Asian Republics, 20-22, 25, 28-31, 56-58, 75, 79, 95
Kazakhstan, 19, 21, 29-30, 56, 65, 75, 95, 101-102
Kyrgyz Republic, 19, 29, 31, 37, 39, 56-57, 65, 75, 95, 102-103
Uabekistan, 7, 19, 29, 56-58, 65, 95
China, People's Republic of
Country highlights, 97-98
Economle developments, 54-56, 64-65
Economic indicators, 204-211
Financial sector reforms, 33
International trade, 35
Tax reform, 25
Classification of country groups, 81 .
Classification of projects by objective, 1992-1995, 69
Cofinaneing, 8, 13, 70, 82, 90-92
Cofinancing and guarantee operations, 13, 82
Cofinancing strategy and guarantee policy, 70
Cofinancing arrangements, 8
Cofinancing arrangements, chart, 90
Projects involving cofinancing, 222
Compendium of country notes, 1994-1997, 13
Compensation and benefits, 142
Complementary Financing Scheme (CFS), 70
Confidentiality and disclosure of information, 14
Contract awards, 8, 127-128, 225, 228-237
Cook Islands
Country highlights, 98-99
Economic developments, 59-61, 66
Economic Indicators, 204-211

Hi 272

‘Cooperation with NGOs, See Non-governmental organizations (NGOs)

Country focus, 7, 78

Country highlights, 95-115 :

Cauntry operational strategies, 13, 37, 67, 70, 77-78
Country project review missions, 98, 100, 109-1 10, 112, 127
Country strategy studies, 13, 39

Credit lines, 7, 133

Crosscutting issues, 13, 84

Developing member countries (OMCs), 13, 67-68, 70-71,
74-77, 79, 127
Economic developments in DMCs, 41-66

Directors’ visits, 16

Disbursements, 119, 124, 128-129, 228-229
Contract awards and disbursements: 1991-1995, chart, 128
Loan disbursements, 1994 and 1995, table, 129

Economic developments in DMCs, 95 :
Economic data of DMCs, 204-211
Economic indicators of ADB DMCs, 41
Economic research and development studies, 92-93
Economies in transition: the Asian experience, 19
Education. See Social infrastructure
Energy sector, 7, 14, 71, 84, 108
Energy foans and TA grants in 1995, table, 84
Environment
Environmental activities, 87-89
Environmental policies and priorities, 76-77
Environmental protection, 38, 96-98, 101, 107, 114
Pollution, 71, 112, 114
Equity
Bank operations, table, 81
Equity investments, 7, 8, 13, 70, 82, 126, 223-224
Private sector loans, equity investmenis and underwritings, !
chart, 89

Fiji
Country highlights, 99
Economic developments, 58-60, 65 . :
Economic Indicators, 204-211 i
Finance
Borrowings, 8, 119-120
Financial intermediaries, 118
Financial management, 98, 104, 107, 111, 113-114, 117-122
Financial policies, 13-14
Financial ratios, 118
Financial resources, tables, 254-256
Financial sector, 73, 85,96, 100, 105, 108-110, 114
Forestry policy, 14, 71
Former ADB Presidents and Vice-Presidents, 267
Fourth general capital increase, 68, 117

General capital increase

Fourth general capital increase (GCI IV), 68, 117
Governance, 7, 14, 68, 79
Government and government-guaranteed loans, 7, 13, 82, 121
Grant assistance, 8, 38-39, 73, 75, 95-98, 100-106,

108-110, 112-115, 137 !
Gross income, 122
Growth-oriented projects, 70
Guarantee operations, 70, 90-92 i

Health and Population. See Social Infrastructure ‘
Hong Kong j
Economic developments, 43-47, 61-62 |
Economic indicators, 204-211i
i

 

Human development, 67, 70, 72-73, 75, 93,95, 102-104,
106-108, 110, 113-114, 141

Income
Gross income, 122, 125
Income and expenses, table, 122
Investment portfolio, 121-122, 125-126
Net income, 9, 125
Review of income outlook, 117
India
Country highlights, 99-100
Economic developments, 43, 51~54, 63-64
Economic indicators, 204-211
Indonesia
Country highlights, 100-101
Economic developments, 43, 47-51, 62-63
Economic indicators, 204-211
. Rural water supply and sanitation, 76
Industry and nonfuel minerals sector, 85
Inflation, chart, 42
Information policy, 14, 68
Infrastructure
Infrastructural bottlenecks, 108
Infrastructure development, 70, 73, 96, 99, 110, 113-114
Infrastructure investment, 98, 104
Board Inspection Committee, 14
Inspection function, 7, 68-69, 144
Institutional development, 38, 70, 75, 106, 114
Interagency cooperation, 187
Internal audit, 138-139
Audit Committee of the Board, 14-15, 138-139
Office of the General Auditor, 14-15, 138
International Monetary Fund (IMF), 37, 105.
Investment authority, 121 .
Investment portfolio, 121-122
Investments
ADF investments, 9, 125
Exchangetraded financial futures contracts, 121
Investment authority, 121
Investment portfolio, 121-122, 126
Liquid asset investments, 121
OCR investments, 9, 121
Rate of return, 9, 121-122
Involuntary resettlement, 7, 14, 69, 72, 74

Japan
Economic developments, 42
dapanese yen, 42, 119-120

Japan Special Fund, 91, 126, 256
Operations and resource position, 126

Kazakhstan
Country highlights, 101-102
Economic developments, 56-58, 65
Economic indicators, 204-211
Kiribati
Country highlights, 102
Economic developments, 58-61
Economic indicators, 204-211
Korea, Republic of
Country highlights, 102
Economic developments. 43-47, 61-62
Economic indicators, 204-211
Kyrgyz Republic
Country highlights, 102-103
Economic developments, 56-58. 65

 

Lag People's Democratic Republic
Country highlights, 103-104
Economic developments, 48-51, 63
Economic indicators, 204-211
Lanc iitiing and status of women, 28
Law and development, 89-90
Lending
1995 loans by sector, 7, 217-218
Approvals, 7, 212-214
Bank operations, table, $1
Credit lines, 133
Currency composition of loans, 118
Disbursements, 8-9, 118, 133, 139
Distribution of iending among DMCs, 1968-1995, 220-221
Government and government-guaranteed loans, 7, 13, 82, 121
Lending and investment mocailities, table, 81
- Lending rate, table, 118
Lending rates, 118
Lean approvals, 13, 118
Loan approvals by country and by source of funds, 1995, 219
Loan disbursements and repayments, 119, 128-129
Market-based loan window, 13, 118-119
New operations approved in 1995, 83
Number of loan projects and programs, chart, 8
Private sector lending, 13, 82, 89, 119, 223-224
Private sector loans, equity investments, and underwritings, chart, 89
Program loans, 7, 82, 84, 92 .
Project loans, 7, 13, 82
Public sector, 7, 15, 82, 89, 92
Rate, 118
Regional, 82
Sector loans, 7, 13, 15
Sectoral distribution of project approvals, 1992-1994,
chart, 88, table 216
Sources of 1995 loans, table, 85
Status of OCR loans, 118
Three-year moving averages, 1968-1970 - 1992-1995, 8 215
Lending by Country
Bangladesh, 95, 212
Bhutan, 96, 212
Cambodia, 97, 212
China, People’s Republic of, 98, 212
Cook Islands, 98, 212
Fiji, 99
India, 100, 212
Indonesia, 101, 212-213
Kazakhstan, 101, 213
Kiribati, 102
Kyrgyz Republic, 103, 213
Lao PDR, 104, 213
Malaysia, 104, 213
Maldives, 105
Marshall Islands, 105, 213
Micronesia, Federated States of, 106
Mongolia, 106, 213
Myanmar, 107
Nauru, 107
Nepal, 108, 213
Pakistan, 109, 214
Papua New Guinea, 109, 214
Philippines, 110, 214
Solomon Islands, 111
Sri Lanka, 112, 214
Thailend, 112, 214
Tonga, 113, 214
Tuvelu, 113

o73 EdANNUAL REPORT 1995

a

Vanuatu, 114
Viet Nam, 114, 214
Western Samoa, 115
Lending by Sector
Agriculture and agro-Industry, 83-84, 216
Energy, 84, 216
Finance, 85, 216
Industry and nonfuel minerals, 85, 216
Soclal infrastructure, 85-87, 216
Transport and communications, 87, 216
Liability management, 119
Liquid asset investments, 121
Lean disbursements
Loan disbursements, 1994 and 1995, table, 129, 228-229
Private sector, 127
Loan window, 13, 119
London inter-bank offered rate, 118

Malaysia
Country highlights, 104
Economic developments, 43, 47~51, 49
Economic indicators, 204-211
Maldives
Country highlights, 104-105
Economic developments, 51-54
Economic indicators, 204-211
Management, principal officers and senior staff, 264-266
Market-based loan window, 13
Marshall Islands
Country highlights, 105
Economie developments, 58-61, 66
Economic indicators, 204-211
Medium:Term Strategic Framework (1995-1998), 67-69
Micronesla, Federated States of
Country highlights, 106
Econorhic developments, 58-61, 66
Economic Indicators, 204-211
Mongolla
Country highlights, 106-107
Economic developments, 43, 54-56, 64-65
Economic indicators, 204-211
Legal reform, 38
Maternal deaths, 29
Multicurrency loans, 118
Myanmar
Country highlights, 107
Economle developrnents, 44, 48-51, 63
Economic indicators, 204-211

. Natural resource management, 83-84, 88, 97, 107-112, 114
Natural resources research, 72
Nauru
Country highlights, 107
Economic indicators, 204-211
Nepal
Country highlights, 107-108
Economic developments, 43, 51-54
Economic indicators, 204-211
Netincome, 9, 117, 118, 122, 125
Net transfer of resources, 8, 251-253
New Zealand, 90
Newly industrializing economies, 43, 44~47, 61-62
Non-governmental organizations (NGOs), 68, 76-77
North American Representative Office, 142-143

Mon

Operating assets, 122
Operating expenses, 122
Operational priorities and policies, 14, 67-80
Classification of projects by objective, 1992-1995, 69
Operations
Bank's rale in resource transfer, 92
Cofinancing and guarantee operations, 13, 90-92
Compendium of country notes, 1995-1997, 13
Distributions of technica! assistance grants
and foans, 82
Economic research and development studiés, 92-93
Environmental activities, 87-89
Law and development, 89-90
New operations approved in 1995, chart, 83
Private sector activities, 89
Project approvals, 13, 81-82
Reorganization, 15
Reorganization and its impact on operations, 81
Review of operations, 82-87
Technical assistance, 13, 15, 82
Ordinary capital resources (OCR), 7, 13, 117-122
Borrowings, 119-121
Capitalization, 117
Currency composition of loans, 118
General capital increase, 117
Income and expenses, table, 122
Lending rate, 118
Liquid asset investments, 121
OCR disbursements and repayments, 119
OCR investments, 9
OCR loans, 118-119

Paclfle developing member countries, 43, 58-61, 65-66, 81, 93
Strategy paper for the Pacific, 13
in
Country highlights, 108-109
Economic developments, 43-44, 51-54, 64
Economic indicators, 204-211
Papua New Guinea
Country highlights, 109-110
Economic developments, 43, 58-61
Economic indicators, 204-211
Participatory approaches to development, 68, 75
Personnel management and development
Human resource management and development, 141
Manager development program, 141
Special separation program, 15, 141
Philippines
Country highlights, 110-111
Economic developments, 43-44, 47-51
Economic indicators, 204, 211
Policies
Agriculture and natural resources research, 7, 14, 71-72
Cofinancing and guarantee operations, 7, 13-14, 70
Confidentiality and disclosure of information, 14
Energy sector, 7, 14, 71
Financial policies, 13-14
Forestry, 7, 14, 71
Governance, 7, 14, 68, 79
Information, 14
Inspection function, 7, 14, 68-69
Involuntary resettlement, 7, 14, 69-71, 72, 74 |
Lending foreign exchange for local currency expenditures on projects, 14
New policy initiatives, 15, 68-72
Operational policies, 14, 77
Policy decisions, 13-14Policy dialogue, 79 . Reserve
Policy papers, 14, 71-72 Ordinary reserve, 117
Policy support, 79-80 Special reserve, 117, 121-122

Resident missions
Dhaka, Bangladesh, 96
Islamabad, Pakistan, 109

Population policy, 75
Private sector deveioprnent, 7, 14, 70
Report on the Task Force on Improving Project Quality, 68, 78

 

 

  

 

Pool-based single currency leans, 118 Jakarta, Indonesia, 102
Population, See Health and Population” Kathmandu, Nepal, 108
Population policy, 75 See back cover for addresses
Portfolio performance reviews, 96, 101, 109, 111, 127. ~ Resource transfer
Postevaluation, 131-137 Resource irensfer to DMCs, table, 92
Building postevaiuation capacity of DMCs, 137 : Resources
Feedback of postevaluation findings, 136-137 1995 net transfer of ADB resources to DMCs, chart, 93
Impact evaluation studies, 14-15, 131-132, 134 Bank's role in resource transfer, 92
Performance classification, tables, 131 Ordinary capita! resources, 13, 70, 76
Postevaluation reports discussed by the Audit Committee of the Board ir Special funds resources, 13-14
1995, 15 .
Project performance audit reports, 14-15, 131-133 Secior loans, 7, 13, 127
Reevaluation studies, 131-132, 135-136 Sectoral activities
Special studies, 131-132, 136 Agriculture and agro-industry, 83-84
Technical assistance performance audit reports, 14-15, 131-132, 134 Energy, 14, 84
Poverty . i Finance, 85
Consultative group to assist the poorest, 73 Industry and nonfuel minerals, 85
Power, 51, 64, 71, 84, 95-96, 98, 100, 103, 107~108, 110 Social infrastructure, 74-76, 85-87
Private Sector ‘Transport and communications, 87
Direct private sector loans, 7 Seminars
Equity investments, 7, 13, 70 Seminars on project implementation and administration, 127
Private sector activities, 71, 89 Singapore 2
Private sector investments approved in 1995, 13 Economic developments, 43, 45-47, 61-62
Private sector investment portfolio, 128 Economic indicators, 204-211
Private sector loans, equity investrrents Sixth Asian Development Fund replenishment (ADF VII), 124, 144
and equity underwritings, chart, 89 Social dimensions
Strategy for Bank's assistance for private sector development, 14, 70 Human development, 67, 70, 73-74, 76, 93, 95, 102-104,
Projects 106-108, 110, 113-114
Classification of projects by odjective, 1991-1994, 69 Poverty reduction, 13, 67, 72-73; 75, 84, 95, 97-100,
Economic and social benefits of projects, 135 106-107, 111, 114
Loan projects approved in 1995 Protection of vulnerable groups, 72, 74, 103
Total cost and source of finance, 85 Women in development, 67, 72-73, 83, 86, 88. 95, 100, 106, 108
Project administration procedures, 127 | Social infrastructure, 74-76, 85-87
Project and program administration, 127 ~ Education, 74-75, 86, 101, 108-110
Project approvals, 13, 81-82 Health and population, 75, 86, 99, 108-110
Project completion reports (PCRs}, 127, 132, 187 i Social infrastructure loans
Project performance audit reports (PPARs}, 14-15, 131 and TA grants in 1995, table, 86
Project quality, 14-15, 131, 138 Urban development anc housing, 76, 86, 95-96, 98-99, 101
Project review missions, 127 Water supply and sanitation, 75-76, 101, 105, 108-110, 114
Sectoral distribution of OCR and ADF, 87 Solomon Islands
Sectoral distribution of project approvals, 1992-1994, chart, 88 Country highlights, 111
Publications, 268-270 Economic developmenis, 58-61
Publicsector,61, 72, 98-99, 102, 105-106, 109-110, 127 Economic indicators, 204-211
Public sector lending, 7, 15, 73 ; Special funds
Asian Development Fund, 7, 13-14, 123-125
Record, The, 10 dapen Special Fund, 126
Reevaluation studies, 8, 78, 131-132, 135 Technical Assistance Special: Fund, 125-126
Regional Cooperation . Special separation program, 15, 258
East ASEAN growth area, 92 Sri Lanka :
Economic cooperation, 36, 38 Country highlights, 111-112
European Union (EU), 91 Economic cevelopments, 43-44, 51-54, 64
General Agreement on Tariffs and Trade (GATT), 93 . . Economic indicators, 204-211
Greater Mekong subregion, 38, 87-89 Strategic objectives, 13, 77, 109-110, 114
Regione: activity, 82, 87 Strategic planning and operational agenda, 67
Region issions, 78 . Subscribed capital, 117
Regional technical assistance (RETA), 72-73 Supplementary contributions, 126
World Trade Organization, 55
Reorganization of the Bank, 7, 15, 78 ‘Taipei,China .
Impact on operations, 81 Economic developments, 43, 45-47, 62
Repayments, 92 Economic indicators, 204-211

275 iaANNUAL REPORT 1995

Te

Task Force on Improving Project Qualily, 15, 68, 78
Technical assistance, 8, 82
1967-1995 grant-financed TA approvals sector distribution, 84, 250
1995 loans that resulted from earlier technical assistance, 244-245
Distributions of technical assistance grants and loans, 82
Grantfinanced technical assistance approvals, 238-250
Grant-financed TA from other sources, 92
New operations approved in 1995, 83
Regional technical assistance activities, 246-247
TASF resources, table, 125
Technical assistance by sector, 1990-1994, 83
Technical assistance by sector, 1995, chart, 82
Technical assistance grants, 13
Technical assistance performance audit reports, 14-15, 131-132, 134
‘Technical Assistance Special Fund (TASF), 125-126
Technical assistance by country, 238-243
Bangladesh, 95, 238
Bhutan, 96, 238
Cambodia, 97, 238
China, People’s Republic of, 98, 238-239
Cook Islands, 98, 239
Fiji, 99, 239
India, 100, 239
Indonesia, 101, 240
Kazakhstan, 101, 240
Kiribati, 102, 240
Kyrgyz Republic, 103, 240
Lao People's Democratic Republic, 104, 240-241
Malaysia, 104, 241
Maldives, 105, 241
Marshall Islands, 105, 241
Micronesia, Federated States of, 106, 241
Mongolia, 106, 241
Myanmar, 107
Nauru, 107
Nepat, 108, 241
Pakistan, 109, 242
Papua New Guinea, 109, 242
Philippines, 110, 242
Solomon Islands, 121
Sti Lanka, 112, 242
Thailand, 112, 242-243
Tonga, 113, 243
Tuvalu, 113, 243
Vanuatu, 114.
Viet Nam, 114, 243
Western Samoa, 115, 243
Technical Assistance Special Fund (TASF), 82, 91, 125-126, 255
Operations and resource position, 125
TASF resources, table, 125
Thailand
Country highlights, 112-113
Economic developments, 43, 47-50
Economic indicators, 204-211
‘Three-Year Rolling Work Program and Budget Framework, 8, 13, 16
Tonga
Country highlights, 113
Economic developments, 58-61

| 276

Economic indicators, 204-211
Transitional economies of Asia
Bank operations, 37-39
Basic indicators, 21
Centrally planned economies, 22-23
Debt problem, 26
Economic reforms, table, 24
Fiscal declines, chart, 23
Gradualist approach to transition, 32
Growth of GDP, chart, 20
Macroeconomic and requiatory restructuring, 23
Proximate model of development, 34Quasi-transitional economies, 22
Restructuring of the productive sectors, 29-31
Soclal indicators, table, 27
Social sector issues, 26
Start of transition to market, chart, 19
Tax reform, 25
Trade and interdependence, 29
Women's share of labor force, chart, 27
Transport and communications, 87, 98, 106, 112
Airports subsector, 87
Loans and TA grants in 1995, table, 87
Ports subsector, 87
Roads subsector, 87, 96, 110-113
Telecommuntcatians subsector, 87
Tuvalu ,
Country highlights, 113
Economic developments, 59-61
Economlc indicators, 204-211
Twenty-Eighth Annual Meeting, 7, 73, 77

Urban development and housing, 76, 96, 98, 101
Uzbekistan
Economic developments, 56-58, 65
Economic indicators, 204-211

Vanuatu
Country highlights, 113-114
Economic developments, 44, 58-61, 65-66
Economic indicators, 204-211
Variable-rate loans, 117-118, 122
Vice-President, 16, 141
Viet Nam
Country highlights, 114-115
Economic developments, 43, 47-51, 63
Economic indicators, 204-211

Water
Water resource management, 73
Water supply and sanitation, 15, 75-76, 85, 101, 105,
108-110, 114
Western Samoa
Country highlights, 115
Economic developments, 58-60
Economic indicators, 204-211
Women in development {WID), 67, 72-73, 76, 95, 100, 106, 108fone

Members ADB LIBRARY

 

Tn Ti
/ 1990094422
Afghanistan (1966) Micronesia, Federated
States of (1990)
Australia {1966)
Mongolia (1991)
Austria (1966)
: Myanmar (1973)
Bangladesh . (1973)
Nauru (1991)
Belgium {1966}
Nepal (1966)
Bhutan (1982)
Netherlands (1966)
Cambodia (1966)
New Zealand “(1966}
Canada (1966) ae are
Norway ANS (1966) "2%

        
 
 
  
  
  
  
  
 
  
   
  
 
 
  
  
    

China, People's

     

Republic of (1986) Pakistan 11966} 5,
Cook Islands : (1976) Papua New Guinea
Denmark : = (1968) =—SS«~Philippines

   

Fiji (L970) Singapore
Finland “496
France

Germany | | =

HongKong —

India

Indonesia “ 7 (1966)
Ttaly (1966}
Japan (1966)
Kazakhstan (1994)
Kiribati . (1974)
Korea, Republic of (1966)
Kyrgyz Republic (1994)

Lao People’s Democratic

Republic (1966)
Malaysia (1966)
Maldives (1978)

 

Marshail Islands (1990)Asian Development Bank
6 ADB Avenue, Mandaluyong City

0401 Metro Manila, Philippines

Postal Address:

Telephone:
Facsimile:

Telex:

Internet Address:

Treasurer's Department

Asian Development Bank
P.O. Box 789

0980 Manila, Philippines
(63-2} 632-4444

(63-2) 636-2444

63587 ADB PN (ETP!)
42205 ADB PM (ITT)
29066 ADB PH (RCA)

adbhq@mail.asiandevbank.org

Direct Telex: 29086 ADBTRES PH
66427 ADBTRES PN
42075 ADBTRES PM
Facsimile; (63-2) 632-4707
(63-2) 632-4131
SWIFT Address: ASDB PH MM
Bangladesh Resident Mission India Resident Mission
7th Floor, BSEC Bhaban 37 Golf Links
102 Kazi Nazrul Islam Avenue New Delhi 110 003, India
Karwan Bazar Commercial Area PO. Box 3019, Lodi Road HPO

Dhaka 1215, Bangladesh

Tel. No. (880-2) 814380-5/813-532
Telex No, (780) 642736 ADB BJ
Facsimile (880-2) 813242
Inmarsat-A Tel. No. (873) 1545176

Indonesia Resident Mission
Gedung BRI Il, 7th Floor
Jl. Jend Sudirman Kav, 44-46
Jakarta 10210, Indonesia
BO. Box 99 JKSA
Jakarta Pusat, Indonesia
‘Tel: No. (62-21) 251-2721
Telex No, (73) 65018 ADB IA
Facsimile (62-21) 251-2749
Inmarsat-A Tel, No. (873) 1545201

(872) 1545201

Pakistan Resident Mission

Overseas Pakistanis Foundation
Bldg. (OPF)

Sharah-e-Jamburiyat

G-5/2, Islamabad

GPO Box 1863, Islamabad

Tel. No. (92-51) 825011 to 17/
826101 to 02/826107

Facsimile (92-51) 823324/274718

Inmarsat-A Tel. No. (873) 1545174

New Delhi 110 003, India

Tel, No, (91-11) 469-2578/469-2589
Telex No. (8131) 74099 ADB IN
Facsimile (91-11) 463-6175

Nepal Resident Mission
Stikunj Kamaladi Ward No. 31
Block 2/597, Ka. Na. Pa.
Kathmandu, Nepal
PO. Box 5017 K.D.PO.
Kathmandu, Nepal
Tel. No. (977-1) 227779/227784/220305/229091
Telex No. (891) 2639 ADB NP
Facsimile (977-1} 225063
Inmatsai-A Tel. No. (873) 1545205

South Pacific Regional Mission
La Casa di Andrea, Kumul Highway
PO. Box 127
Port Vila, Vanuatu
Tel. No. (678-2) 3300
Telex No. (771) 1082 ADB NH
Facsimile (678-2) 3183
Inmarsat-A Tel. No. (872) 1545207

North American Representative Office
1730 Pennsylvania Avenue NW
Suite 975
Washington, D.C., 20006, USA
Tel. No. (202) 626-0050
Facsimile (202) 626-0055