HG
3881.5
AT5
AS
AdS
4978le
in
1d

 

Asian Development Bank

 

HG
PEGE

 

ASIAN DEVELOPMENT BANK
Manila

Office of the President

13 March 1979

Fe ens ones

Ete

TAROICHI YOSHIDA
President and

Chairman of the Board

of Directors ‘ se

  

   

 

Ghalirman.CONTENTS

 

 

 

 

The Record . . 1
The Bank in 1978 Ss 30
Economic Developments 9
Operations and Policies 18
Lending Operations 19
Co-Financing 24
Sectoral Review 25
Loan Administration Goal ve BA
Post-Evaluation 35
Technical Assistance and Regional Activities 36
Lending and Operational Policies 45
"Inter-Agency Cooperation co aT

, ‘Loan and'Téchnical Assistance Approvals in 1978 ‘49

   

inary Capital Resources and Financial Management

 

 

 

 

 

‘Statistica Annex ¥ 75

 

 

 

Appencines | 89
. “4 es Fiancial Statements and, Opinions of Independent. Auer 84
«2.--Summary of Budget for 1979 - 434

3. . Resolutions of Board of Governors during 1978 133

4. Channels of Communication 134

5. Official Depositories 136

6. Board of Governors 138

7. Board of Directors and Voting Groups $42

8. Principal Officers 143
NOTE ON DOLLAR AMOUNTS

Tho Bank's financial slatements are expressed In current United States collars. The dollar amounts in the
Report refer, unless otherwise stated, to the United States dollars current al Uhe Wine
RICE terraces jn Bali, Indonesia, site From 1 April 1978, at which time the Second Amondment to the Artinies af Agreament of the International
of @ Bank-financed Project that in- Monetary Fund (IMF) one ile old the na cae frag een velvet lor enosee ote Banks financial
; 7 ; : statoments in terms of the: Spacial Drawing Kight (SDR), at the value in curren «t States dollars as comE cludes irrigation expansion and din puted by iMF, For a more detailed discussion, sae Appendix |-VIll, Notes to Financlel Stalemanta of Grdinary
provement, ‘tural road construction, Capitat Hesources.
protected drinking water supplies .

a. and a soil conservation schema.+ aa ae RPM tS

     

 

    

wiwiripheotiipes: sine gioe Hagemuntsowaimnimmanmemupiranitien LeianinespqaneearieTHE BANK IN 1978

THE YEAR 1978 was marked by a substantial expansion In

assistance activities. For the first tlme, the Bank's annual
lending exceeded $1,000 million, Technical assistance approvats also recorded a sharp increase to $14.1 milfion.
The Bank broke new ground in a number of fleas: it made
its first loans In the health sector and also lis first program
Joan. It made Its first public offering of an external yen
bond issue on International capital markets. The.year saw

» Development Fund (ADF), the Bank's soft loan window, on
_, & Jarger and longer-term basis than tn the past. The Bank
* also’took a number of steps to strengthen'its Internal struc
  

. development needs,

 

year reached $4,159 rmlilion, up by 31 per cent from 1977
(22.2 per cent ia real terms). Cumutatlve lending reached
$5,404 million, for 389" projects in 23 developing member
countrles (DMCs). The number of loans approved during the
year — 53 — was also a new record, Involving 52 projects in
48 countries, Nearly one-third of loan commitments was
made to the poorer member countries on ile alg
terms.

Loans from ordinary capital resources were 9778 mililon,
up 27 per cent from 1977 (18.3 per cent in real terms) and
Special Funds toans were $381 miflion, up 40 per cant (30.8
per cent in raal tarms). Nearly $0 per cent of Special Funds
loans went to countries with a per capita GNP of jess than
$200,

The average size of toans increased slightly to $21.9
million In 1978. The total costs of projects approved for
Bank financing during the year, excluding development
bank projects, were estimated at $2,892 million. Apart from
financing 35 per cent of these overall costs, the: Sank was
aiso able to help mobilize a part of the project financing
through co-financing arrangements.

The number of co-financed prajacts recorded a sharp inGrease from eight projects In 1977 to 18 projects and the
funds provided by co-financiars fram $56 million to $434
million. As at end-1978, 47 projects had a co-financing ele
1 Excluding five refinanced projects.
goon. ‘Under a Bank-tinanced Project,

}water Supply to the Burmese capital
was substantially improved, benefit.

the Asian Development Bank’s lending and technical

_ the successful conclusion of efforts to replenisti the Asian - .

ture In an efforl to respond more effectively to the region's .

LENDING. ACTIVITIES: Total loan approvats-during'thé.”

ment, with $1,092 million being contributed by co-financiers
and $1,013 million by the Bank itself. For the first time, cofinancing was undertaken wlth the Internationa! Fund for
Agriculiural Development, the Islamis Development Bank
and the European Investment Sank..

The years lending Included $60.6 million in foreign exchange for ‘Igcat currency..expenditures in respect of 12
joans to fi -douhtries and a program loan of $8.9 million.

  

“LENDING B SECTOR: 18 line with the trend in recent
years; Agila} wre and Agro- Industry accounted. tor the
‘Bank lending during 1978. The share of this
‘recorded a.modest- dectina fram the 1977
cent against | 3 per cent), It is, however,
ink assistance in this sector, provided on
i$ to the poorer nations, recorded a
sé in 1978: For.instance, Spectaf Funds

 
   
 
 
  
  

 

" [oaris: Were:lp 334.1, per cant from {he 1977 level, as com
pared to an increase of 19.7 per cent in total fending to this
sector. . :

There was. also a fall in the share of the Power seotor
(21.5 par cant against 24.5 per cent), as also In Transport
and ‘Communications (11.9 per cent against 16.5 per cant)
and Water Sly (8.1 per cent against 9.6 per cerit)..

Agains' edyctions, there was a substantlai rise ln
Bank lending to the Industry and Development Banks sectors (ihe latter sub-lend chiefly to small and medium-scale
Industrial enterprises), from 15.5 per cent In 1977 to 24.4 per
cont. There were also small rises in the shares devoted to
the Education and Health sectors.

Agriculture and Agro-Industry: Since agriculture, including forastry, fisheries and livestock, represents the
iargest single source of employment and accounts for
almost halt of the GNP and export earnings of most DMCs
in the region, the Bank has been giving high priority to Its
activities in this key sector. Loan approvals amounted to
$340.7 million as against $259,7 million in 1977, raising the
total ending to the sector to the end of 1978 to $1,360
milfion.

In dealing with the persisting problems of unemployment
and underemployment, poverty and malnutrition among the
rural population, the Bank has placed emphasis on an integrated approach to rural development, water management and expansion of rural employment, This approachhas also been used as a major. Instrument not only for ratsing productivity and food supplies but also for bringing
about a general improvement in the quality of life of the
rural masses. ‘

Apart from Its support to irrigatlon and rural develap
_ ment projects, the Bank has been giving Increasing atten- ~

tlon to tlsherles and llvestock production in an effort to improve the nutritional standards of the people. Other areas

_that have recelved Bank assistance include agroindustries, especially fertilizer which will help raise food
éutput, and a varlety of projects covering commerclal craps
which will facliltate diversification of agricUltural
economies.

The Second Asian Agricultural Survey carrled out by the
Bank In 1976-77 has identlfied some problem areas calling
for spacial atiention in the next decade — widespread
underemployment and poverty, inadequate performance of
agricuttural production and distribution systems and insufficient Implamentation capacities at both government and
“grassroots” fevels for the development task. The Bank has
bean reviewing its policies and practices in the light of the

recommendations contained In: the Survey.and. of Its own

experience,

industry and Development Banks: Total Bank tending
io these two sectors recorded a sharp Increase from $137.6

  
   

lending to the end of 1978 to $1, 492, 2 mill flo
_ Loans to these twoisectors cover inelrig dire
_ by the. Bank ‘far- industrial d

  

 
 

from ek sade
of -thase smatter ind

   

While the bulk of Bank supp xt for

tlonal davelopment banks, there was almost a three-fold ingrease in direct lending to Industry In 1978 — from $42.6
million in the previous year to $124.6 million. The substan
_tial increase was indicatlvé of the wider varlety of industrial °

..projects avallable | for dirett Bank financing;than inthe pas
and the Bank's growing attention to projects whieh would
help axpand the supply of essential. commodities and promete industrial rasearch activities.

Power: Fight loans totalling $249.2 million were made
in 1978, bringing the cumulative lending to this sector'te
$1,243.6 million.

The major objectives of Bank financing in this sector
have been to ensure improved utilization’ of existing
capacities and development of new facillties based on indigenous energy resources. Several loans have been provided to further strengthen and expand generation,
transmission and distribution facilities serving major
centers of the region. The Bank has also financed

geographic extensions of existing power systems, with a

view to bringing electric energy to the smaller towns and
rural areas, and actively assisted in the estahilshment,
rehabilitation and initlal expanglon of smaller systems in
the region.

:view .particularly to providing low-cost tacllit!

  

dustrial develop:
ment In the past had been in the form of credit lines to na
Because of the sharp increase in oll prices in recent
years, the Bank has given close attention to the davelopment of power generation facilitles which utilize in an
economic way indigenous resources such as water, natural

gas and lignite. Consequently, about 90 per cant of Bank
» lending for power ganeration since 4975 has been for pro- ,

Jects based on domestic energy resources.

Tranaport and Communications: With loans totalling
$138.1 milfion during the year, cumulative tending to this
sector reached $941.8 million,- a

 

A major part of Bank lending to this sector fies been for ~~

roads, ports and airports. Most Bank loans for road networks are aimed at facilitating area development and
reduction of regional economic disparities, The Bank
recognizes thal road projects have a catalytic impact on
economic development, especially in rural areas, by enabling the producer to reduce transport costs and find
wider and more assured markets for his crops. The Bank
has, therefore, continued to emphasize the development
and improvement of secondary and feeder roads, with a

  

underdeveloped rural argas and thus helping the
their development potentials.
Simijarly, the malin objectives of Bank assistance for

 

ports and alrports have been to heip DMCs to ‘meet their: °°:
“development needs, handle an Increasing volume: of *
-_. ‘general cargo traffic and promote joudemn:

 

Water “Supply: Four loans totalling $04: 1
proved during the year. Total lending io the’
‘end of the year had reached $512.8 mition.”

groups, ‘through ‘extension of distribution’ networks ta the
residential areas of these groups ahd installation of public
standplpes.

Apart from financing water supply projects ‘In major
“metropolitan areas, the Bank ‘has also supported ° :
sapply systems In smaller cities and provingi

 Aspects-such as integrated plans for development of water” ‘

 
 

‘and sewerage systems, economy in costs and incorporation of-appropriate technology in design and construction
are given special attention. o

Urban Development: Almost 4 quarter of the population
of the Bank’s DMCs resides in cities. It has been estimated
that about 75 milllon people In these citles live in’ slums.
Social problems such as unemployment, Inadequate housing and water supply, overcrowding, insufficient transport
facilitias and poor sanitary and environmental conditions
have assumed grave proportlons because of increasing
prassure of population in urban areas,

Bank operations in this field had been focused in the
past on projects concerning water supply, sewerage and
waste disposal. Since 1976 the Bank has financed three
projects involving more ‘integrated aspects of urban
developmant than in the past. Together with a loan of $16
million approved in 1978, total lending to this sector
amounts to $37.7 million,Education: Lending for education: projects ‘amounted .

to $30 million during 1978, bringing cumulative loans to this
sector to $77.8 mfilton.

There has baen an expansion of the Bank's activities jn?

the educational field, and a broadening in scope, in recent
years. Earlier projects were chiefly associated with
technical and vocational skills training, but the Bank has
now advanced into other secondary and higher levels of
education.

 

Health: This is a relatively new area of Bank activity.
Two loans totalling $38.5 milllon were approved during the
year, both for haspital-polyclinic projects.

. Provision for health clinics has also been made on a
modest scale in certain integrated area and agriculture
development projects financed by.the Bank In the past. The
Bank hopes to make a start in lhe near future in assisting
projects for health delivery services with farnily planning ag
an integral part.i eid ag Sa

Trane ess

 

 

|

“aa

se oes necator

=
ae

LENDING RATE: The lending rate on ordinary loans
was set al 7.65 per cent at the beginning of 1978, was adjusted to 7.76 per cent in the second quarter and left unchanged for the rest of the yaar.’ The commitment charge
on ordinary joans was raised during the year from 0.45 per
cant to 0.75 per cent per annum,

Special Funds loans carry no Interest and have continued to be made at a service charge of 1 per cent per anhum since 1974.

DISBURSEMENTS: Loan disbursements from ordinary
capital resources and Special Funds totalled $462.2 million
during 1978, as compared to $356.2 million in the preceding
year. Disbursements from ordinary capital resources
amannted to $296 million ($272.5 million in 1977) and from
Special Funds $167.2 million ($83,7 million In 1977), Total
disbursements to the end of 1978 were $1,515 million from
ordinary capital resources and $462.2 million from Special
Funds.

A total of 219 loans were under implementation in 1978.

with 46 loans becoming effective during the year, The rapid
expansion of the Bank's activities and the increasing complexity of the projects financed have underlined the impertance of loan administration and the need for new approaches. Close monitoring of individual projects, special
attention to delays and problems in project implementation
and a large number of review missions to help work out appropriate measures were some of the steps taken in this
diraction. ss * 5

TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE: Technical assistance improves the capability of DMCs to make effective usa of
developmant funds in general, and-plays an important role
in generating new projects: for financing by the Bank and
other. sources, The Bank's expanding activities in this area
are helping build up a pool of. skilled personnel for project
formulation, implamentation and management in OMCs.

The Bank’s technical assistance activitles expanded
sharply during 1978. Technicai assistance approvals for 47
projects in 18 DMCs totalled $11.1 milllon, which was 54.8
per cent higher than In 1977. The Agriculture and AgroIndustry sactor again received the largest share of
technica! assistance — 61.2 gor cent as against 95.4 per
cent in 1977, ,

In 1978 alone, 21 of the Bank's loans resulted trom earlier
technical aselstance provided by the Bank. Curulatively,
jo the end of 1978, 112 of the Bank's loans (about 29 per
cent of the total) have had their origin from technical
assistance provided earlier by the Bank. :

The scope and coverage of the Bank's technical
assistance activities have been considerably expanded and
ihe terms of such assistance liberallzed. The Bank can now
provide technical assistance te induce development flnancing from other sources, make luans for teohnical
assistance pragrams, and make greater use of local consultants.

REGIONAL ACTIVITIES: During the year the Bank was
also involved in 11 regional activities. These included sub
| The lending rate was reduced to 7 40 pet cen! per annum wilh eftect from
41 January 1979.

om aerate

regional seminars on agricultural development {arising
from the Second Asian Agricultural Survey), and regional
seminars on forestry, irrigation, appropriate technology
and small-scale industry, project implerneniation and Z
supervision, feasibility studies, procurement and project i
management. , g

A new on-the-job training program for offleers of development finanee Institutlons in DMCs was introduced, Grants
were made during the year for three plongering studias: two
surveys, one dealing with agriculture and another with In- ¢
dustry, in South Pacific DMCs, and the first phase of a =
research project on Traditional Socio-Cultural Systems and * &
Modern Economic Growth In the region. :

 

POLICY REVIEWS: The year was significant for a
number of policy reviews and sectoral studies, which were
carried out in a wide range of subjects. Among cihers, :
these covered a revlew of the arrangements for landing 2
from ADF, the Bank's roles In the fieids of forestry and
forest industries and in mineral development, Bank operations in South Pacific DMCs, program lending andguldelinas on the uses of consultants. . so

The review of arrangements for lending from ADF confirmed the policy of basing access to concessional loans
on country considerations, especially the use of per capita
GNP and debt-repayment capacity as major criterla. Based
on these considarations, the borrowing gountrles were
classified into thres groups ~- Group A, comprising mainly
the least developed, which would have full access to ADF,
subject to avallabillty of resources; Group B, comprising
four middie-income countries, which would have access to ADF for modest amounts; and the-sest.in Group C, which
would have no access to the Jimited tesources of ADF, &
further review of the arrangements Is, planned for 4

The Bank hopes to play a lacger.cole in forestry. af
Industries development in DMCs, Siqiliar
and preparation of projects for s
Hon of non-fuel minerals and coal rescurces wl
creased attention. Special efforts are also to be made In
helping DMCs to develop instltutlona! capabilitles and
facilities for carrying out geological surveys and Mineral,
exploration programs. . is, os

A policy review was made during the year in an effortto .
make the Bank more responsive to the special nesds of
DMCs In the South Paclflc region.

lt was also decided that program loans may be made to
DMGs, in special circumstances, in order to help increase
productive capaclty In high-priority sectors or activitles.

A review of the Bank's Guidelines on Uses of Consultanis was completed. Several policy aspacis such as
domestic procurement, local currency financing and coflnancing, and a sector paper on Agriculiure and Rural
Development were due for consideration by the Board of
Directors early in 1979.

 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
      

 

ORDINARY CAPITAL RESOURCES; Subscriptions to :
tte second general increase in the ordinary capital : resources of the Bank, approved by tne Board of Governors :
in 1976, continued to be recelved during the year. A total of
$1,208.6 rnillion was received, thus raising total subscriptions under the second general capital inevease to $4,742.5
rnillion.

The Bank is examining the linpiications of an amendment to the Articles of Agreement of the InternationalMonetary Fund which came into effoct lh April, under wh Ich
ourrancies no longer have any par-values in terms of gold.
“Meanwhile, for purposes of the Bank's financlal
statements, the capital stock ts valued In terms of the

dollars.

“=: -@f $390 million, with six bond issues in four currencies —
.US Dollars, Deutsche Marks, Swiss Franca and Japanese

- tinued to improve, a result not only ot favorable market conditions but also-of the Bark’s sound financial. position and
ig high standing on the world’s capital markets.

-SPECIAL FUNDS: In duly, the Board of Governors
: “authorized the Bank to receive contriouiions to a second
-replenishment of ADF in an amount of $2,150 million, con
isting of a basic raplenishmeni total of $2,000 million and
“$150 million in supplementary contributions. This
ceptenishment is designed to meet the cancessional len-ding program of the Bank for the period 1979-1982, The total
resources of the Special Funds stood at $1,846.7 million at:
-the end of 1978. Of this, $1,624,8 million had been committed, leaving a balance of $221.8 million.

echnical Assistance Special Fund: in::1978,.the s1se of

 

‘that development projects, .

ps were also taken during t
Ak's operational and administrative structures.
organization of the Bank's
ace in August with a view to increasing the Bank’s
ty, to handle the rising volume of:new and.ongafii
Oan.and technical assistance activities, strengthening pro
upervision and loan administration. and praviding- for

 

NnsPepartment was redesignated the;,Gountry Depart:
“and a new Development Policy Office was created.

Special Drawing Right, at its value | in cusrent United States

‘Borrowings during the year ‘amounted to the wyufaulend

Yen — while three eaclles. issues totalling. $130.6 million
ware redeemed, The terms: obtained ort borrowings: con-.”

Nine donor couniries made contributions to the Bank's. 
yhich plays 4 key role in a wide range of current and poten we

operational! functions”

   
 
   
 

ftéctive polloy formulation and:reviews*The Operas

The pre-existing two Projects Departments wera reorganized Into three departments on major sectoral jines. A
Central Projects Services Office was astablished to assist
in monitoring and supervision of project implementation
and loan administration, and a separate Post- Evaluation
Office .was created out of a pre-existing unit in the
Economic Office.
A decision was also taken during ihe year to reorganize
: the Bank's Administration Department, to take effect from
1 January 1979, with the bifurcation of the department — a
Budget, Personnel and Management Systems Department
and an Office of Administrative Services. These measures
were designed to regroup activilies along functional lines,
and thus provide more effectlve support for the rising tempo of Bank actrvilies.

OUTLOOK: This overview of the Bank's work during
1978 shows the steps that have been taken in an effort to
strengthen the Bank's ability to assume a progressively
more offectlve and expanding role in promoting the
economic and social development of the region,

As a regional development finance Institution, the’ Bank

has catved for Itself a distinctive role, befitting the size and

Giversity of the area it serves and its owh modest

resources, It has endeavored over the years to establish a
‘yelatlonship ‘with its DMCs based on mutual rapport and
4 ssively. strengthened \ts ability to respond promptly
ectlvaly to their changing reeds and circumstances. ,
pand Its ‘activities in such flelds as

  
  
      
 
  
 
 
 
  
    
  
  
 
 
 
  
 
  

ote facet Of this Increased respon:

é Bank's subscribed capita
ned the Bank's access 1
and the successful cdnelusplenishment of ADF, have ‘

mémber countries, both
developed. and developing, In the Bank's expanded and ©

special role-in the region.
The development asks facing the region, which are ‘set

 

taken ‘during the year to strengthen and

operational: and. administrative structures | should.

-élgnificantly support the Bank In its role as a catalyst for
“h * development.

araall-soaie industries, minerals and |

 

   
 

“Bank's, .poligies and procedures. and its” ” -j

epReeaeaeens es fe

sot sen

1 acennoeee meee easage

sence: IN 1978, the overall economic performance of DMCs of the
“2 Bank Was quite impressive, particularly in “the light of
developments in the world economic situation.

‘The International Setting

During 1978, increases in world income and trade flows
ere’ modest In real terms: The rates of inflation remained
‘high, -particularly in the developing countries, Continued In‘creases in the production of foodgralns contribirted iga
er. uiprovement in world stocks of cereals', although
g.demand for.current consumption and the Yeplonish‘Of stocks led-to increases In'the prices of foodgrains
ed.in international markets. World-wide consumption
Pe trolest ‘pioducte deolined th 1978, partly due to the
option of energy: conservation. measures and partly due
he:slower growth In, seonomic i
Wwithia ‘tits Sglobail context, thé éddnaimic situation in Industrial countrias as well as in developing countries diffeted considerably. The aggregate Gross National Product
GNP) of the industrial countries which are members of the
ganization tor Economic Cooperation and Development
ECD) increased in real tetris by aboul 3.5 per cent, which
as marginally lower than .the . Al wpet..cant growth rate
sracorded in 1977.

The GNP growth rates of Host oi the ECD countries im‘proved over those in 1977, although in several major countrias the rates were considerably below the higher initial
targets. This was a result of the cautious economic policies
“pursued by the countries concerned to contain inflation
and, with some exceptions, to unprove their balance of
: payments positions, The OECD countries as a gioup were
- suecessful.in reducing the overall inflatlon sate, from 8.9
per cent in 1977 to about 8.2 per cent in 1978. Thelr aggregate current account deficlt declined steeply from
‘$27,600 million in 1977 to about $750 million in 4978." There
: wore, however, large Imbalances in the current accounts of

 

 

 

 

 

 

   

Talal carryover af cereals is estimated by the Food and Agriculture
Orgitnization (FAO) to have Increased from 188 million metri¢ lors (1.L) in
» 1977 to 176 milion ma. in 1972.

An 1978, the Ivtal exports of the OECD pouitnen increased by ud per
cenl and their tolal imparts Increased hy 4.3 par cent; while thait exports 10
Ron-OECP counties inc xl by 6.4 per cent as against an increase in
imports from the same scurae of 1.8 per cent,

ARTH: MOVING work at the Port
fQasin: Project in Pakistan, which is
imo: cat’ improving handling

bfaciities. for the country’s b
a te
semnd bulk argo. * (Mand

n

 

ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENTS

 

the major OECD countries. The surpluses of some countries Increased, while a few recorded higher deficits.”

(In most OECD countries, unemployment rales during
1978 were higher than those experienced in 1977. This,
together with growing trade deficils in some cases and/or
continued slow growth in economic activity and rapid increases in imporis of certain items, led to the application of,
further selective restrictions, on iinportg by several countries. ‘

The members of ihe Organization of Petroleum Expor ting |
Countries (OPEC) experienced a considerable slowdown in
their rates a9 nst, are GNP
growth rat
their grow’ :
Also, the. aggregate current eepourt surplus of the OPEC

 

  
  
  

materials and manutlactures, the depreciation in the value.
of the US dollar and the prospective supply and demand
silualion were arnong the factors which led to a decision by
OPEC in December lo raise oil prices in stages by ie per
cenl during 1979.

The non oll ‘developing couatites Improved ‘upon their
overall aconot
combined ‘economic growth rate of these countries is
estimated io have been 6 per cent in 1978 compared with
4,7 per sent in 1977. Given lhe continued high rate of inerease in their populations, this allowed only a modest
growth of less than 3 per cent in average per capita income
in these countries. The higher growth in income led to
higher levels of imports with the result that their aggregate
currant account deficil ts estimated to have increased
sharply from $24,000 million in 1977 to $34,000 million in
1978. This, however, helped to moderate inflationary
pressures. The gverall increase in prices In the non-oil
developing countries in 1978 was below that in 1977,
although it was still higher than the Increases for both the
OECD countries and the OPEC countries.

 

 

Economic Developments in the Region

A review of the economic performance of DMCs of the
Sank during 1978 shows that, In terms of major economic
Indicators, namely, real income, food production, price

performance, of the preceding year. Tha" ”SATO ODS

ayo

jacehoree: sie msec comet pasaractsnnt 7 pobenctnrenenrm rent area

 

 

stability, export earnings and foreign exchange reserves,
ihe regional economy made goad progress. Overail improvements In the economic performance of DMCs during
the last few years have beenysustained despite Inflation,
unstable exchange rates, dnd slow. growth. in. iticome and
trade in the world economy. The aggregate trade deficit of
DMCs increased substantially during the year, reversing
the downward trend since 1975, This was accompanied by
larger capital inflows, teflecting generally the improved
etonamic pertermance-ol tha teglon ‘ ae

Preliminary estiniates: of growth: in real Income for 14
OMCs listed in Table 1! Indicate that eight experienced
higher growth rates in 1978 compared with 1977. The
growth rate in Gross Domestic Product (GOP) for Indonesia
remained urichanged at 7.5 per cant. The growth rates for
Hong Kong, Malaysia, and Phillippines were marginally
jower, though they were still relatively high at 10 per cent,
7.4 per cent and 5.8 per cent, respectively. The growth rate
for Fiji tell from 4.5 per cent to 3 per cent, due to a shortfall
in suyareane production caused by adverse weather. The
growth rate in India is-estimated to have declined to 3.5 per
cenl, considerably below the rather high lavel of 7.2 per
cent attained in 1977. The slow growth may be attributed to
the fact that agricultural output was only 2 per cent higher
than the high level achieved in 1977.

The most impressive improvements in GDP growth rates
during 1978 were recotded by:

  

 

 

 

    
 
 
 
  
 

‘abgladestr,Republic of - ”

 

CHINA, REP. OF
KOREA, REP, OF

“HONG KONG
1 HAILANO

| -5INGAPORF+
BANGLADESH

INDONESIA —

   
   
 
  
 
 

+, The overall performance of the agricultural sectors in :

 
 
 
  

China and Pakistan, In Bangladesh, a 10 per cent incraase
in foodgrain production accounted largely for the high
growth, Pakistan’s satisfactory performance was cue
largely lo a recovery In industrial activities, following a
period of relative stagnation in 1977. Jn’ the ‘case of the
Republic of China, econoniic growth’ was ‘above the’ very
high performance recorded In 1977 and was due to 6xpansionary domestic policies and favorable demand and prices
for its exports. Rapublic of Korea, Sti Lanka and Thailand
also showed substantial improvement in their GDP growth
rates. Burma and Siigapore shoWad 4 smalliniprovemdnt
in GDP growth over the high rate achieved in the previous
yaar. The economy of the Republic of Korea maintained its
impressive record of growth, with an increase in GDP of
42.1 per cent.The growth rates of Burma, Sri Lanka and
Thalland at 6.7 per cent, 5.7 per cent and 8.7 per cent,
respectively, were record levels in recent years. The higher
growth In the Republic of Korea was due mainly te a sharp
increase in industrial production, while that in Thailand
was due mainly to bumper ood crops. In Sri Lanka both
agricultural and industrial production contributed to the
higher rate of economic growth. In the case of Burma, this
was mainly because of the record level of rice production, —

white the continued high growth in Singapore Was due to a
éteady expansion in industry and trade.

. . $0 the case of DMCs for whleh otticial national ‘income
data for 1978 are nat yet available, the growth in, Nepal's. a

@DP ‘is expected to have been higher than in 1977 dietoa

“petter: harvest in 1977/78, The three Indochina member
“agountries soem to have experienced low economic, growth. ;

 

ates in 1978 due to the unsettled political and oconomic
wations; and the adverse impact. of sever |

lural production. Most uf Lie’ Pacific

pected lo have experienced- unsati

in 4978 due to depressed levels “of: iipu

world prices for most of their aringipalexp'

whore a new fishing base and a recently established palm
oil mill are expected to have made @ substantial pontribus
tion to.the growth in GDP. me eaenae %

DMCS was varied. Some countries (¢.g., the three If
epublic of Korea and Malaysia) experlangediu
yorab Athar, which adversely affected the grow
‘their agricultural output. However, "Ii Several other DM:

 

(Bangladesh, Indonesia, Philippines, Sri Lanka cand «

 

 
 
 
 

  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  

 

 

  

Thailand) large increases In agricultural production were’ =
MALAYSIA ‘achieved despite adverse weather in certain cases. It India,. ©.
agricultural production was about 2 per cent above the higti
BURMA’ level achieved in the previous year.As a result, the overall
1 PAKISTAN output of the region exceeded that in 1877,
} _ The significant progress made by the region’ fh recent-.
H PHt} IPPINES ; ; ; ,
By years with regard io food production was maintained dur
i SRIELANKA ing the year. The data provided in Tables 2 and 3 show that,
f INDIA in 1978, the combined output of rice, wheat and maize was
H 255 milion -metric tons (m,t}. This was 114 per cont higher
ry than the output of 229 million m.t. in 1978 and surpassed

 

 

 

the previous record level of 244 million m.t. actieved In.
3977, Such a fligh and growing level of foodgrain produc: -.
tion, despite adverse weather in a number of DMCs, indicates that development efforts which have baen made by Bs
many DMCs are dearing fruit and that agricultural perfor- :
mance in the region is becoming relatively tess vulnerable
to the vagaries of weather.

vo AE on 28
Per Cent

 

 

 

 

SE mat ies ee

Sriveecna soe

1 Tables reterred to In this Chapter appeat on pages 75-07,

10 (Among the foodgrains, rice — which is the staple food of
the majorlty of the peoote in the region — recorded an increase of 4.5 por cent In production during 1978, reaching
194 million m.t, This Increase was above the record level
‘achieved In 1977 and was 13.9 per cent higher than the output in 1976. The galnis were shared by several food deficit
DMGs, namaly, Bangladesh, Indonesla, Pakistan’ and Sri
Lanka, Burma, Nepal and Thalland, which are exporters,
also experienced substantial gains. The two. other major
foodgrains, wheat and-malze, also registered large in
 

:
e

   
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
   
 
 

 

 

maize output by 5.3 per cent, The prograsslve increases In
wheat production in recent years have been particularly
noteworthy, from 35 million m.t. In 4975 to 43 million m.t. in
4978 — an Increase of 23 per cant in three years. About 90
per cent of this Increase was accounted for by India, where
the growth in wheat output has averaged 9 per cent a year
since 1975,

INDEX OF MANUFACTURING PRODUCTION
‘. OF SELECTED DIMGs: 1974-1878

 

 
  
  
 
  
 
 
  
 
  
 
 
 
 
  

These {mprovements in food production enabled DMCs
19 reduce thelr net impart of foodgrains trom 14.6 million
n° 1976 to 10.3 million m.t. in 1977. According to
éliminary estimates, the net toodgrain imports of DMCs
in 1978.are expected to have remained at about the level of
19 " ,

 

{hat environment of sustained stimulus provided by
vacious government policies, industrial production in DMGs
nerally Continued to grow al a high rate, The improved
position of international reserves In 1977 and higher capital
flows during 1978 enabled these countries to make adequate-investments in, as well as to import the necessary
‘components for, their manufacturing and construction in
 

though Pakistan has an overall ood delinh, it is a nel exporter of rice,

“Greases In 1976; ‘wheat ‘Output Increasad-by 4.9 per cent and”

dustries to maintain satisfactory levels of capacity utilization. Increased exports of manufactured goods also contributed to the good performance of their industrial sectors.
Some of the industriallzed DMCs faced demand constraints
on their traditional exports to the developed countries.
However, these affects were oftset thrdugh-greater- diversification of export markets and products.

Available data on Indices of manufacturing’ production

show that eight out of eleven DMCs achieved higher growth |

rates In the manufacturing sector curing: 1978 compared
with 1977. Reoublic of China, Indoneéla arid Republic of
Korea continued to register high growth rates (28.5 per
cent, 20.3 per cent and 23,7 per cent, respectively}, India
and Bangladesh achieved a growth rate in manufacturing
output of about 7 per cant, which was somewhat higher
than that achieved in the previous year. In Pakistan, the increase of 10 per cent in the manufacturing sector
represented a subslantial recovery from the recession during 1975-1977, when the growth rates were negative.
Malaysia registared a growth rate of 14.5 per cent, which is
much higher than the 10,5 per cent increasa recorded in

1977. Thailand registered a detline in its growth ‘rate of *

manufactures, although the rate remained fairly high at
40.9 per cent. Fiji experienced an absolute reduction, of 3

percent inils ae outputas against an increase

of 10.6 per cent in Foon Bl as x auld

Index 19745100
140 ff

1974 1975 1976 1977

Tourism has beeome-an important source of income to
several DMCs. Ag a result of concessional group travel
facllitles Introduced by various airlines and the promotional measures taken by various DMCs, the region has at
 

WHa

je, hse meen

 

mata ts is NIN

seem

Jem tee ee

Team ora a

ec Rm aie re

2a

es Rano ar =

  
  
 
 
 
    

 

 

12

‘*(Table'5)

     
 
 
  
 

tracled an increasing number of tourists in racent years,
The aggregate. income from tourism amounied to abotit

$2,200 million in 1975, $2,900 rnillion in 1976 and reached

about $3,400 million in 1977 (Table 4). Eight DMCs (Republic
of Ghina, Hong Kong, Indig, Republic of Korea, Malaysia,
Philippinas, Singapore and Thailand) accounted for 91 per
cent of this income in 1977. The preliminary data available
for many of the major tourist centers in the region suggest
that income from tourism exceaded $4,000 million in 1978

Tourist travel among countries within the fegion has also

expanded considerably.

During 1978, OMCs further increased their efforls to contain their growing dependence on imported sources of
energy.To this end, exploration for domestic fossil fuels
and the axpluilation of alternative sources of energy fe
ceived increased attention. The value added in.these areas
continued to Improve in a number of non-oil DMCs, notably
Burma, India and Pakistan. Despite these efforts, ine
overall] dependence of OMCs on imported sources of
energy in 1978 was higher than in 1977 as their energy consumption increased rapidly In the wake of accelerated
economic activities. The value of oi) imports in 1978 was
significantly higher than in 1977.

The overall record of DMGs in containing inflation since
1976 has been satisfactory. The weighted average of price

increases in the reporting DMCs, excluding India, was 8.4 °
per gent inv 1976, 8.3 per cent in 1977 and 8.2 per cent in 1978"

 

    

78 as against an increase of 8.4 per cent in 1977,
rid a decline of 7.8’per cent in 1976. Including India, the
overall averages would be 2.5 per cent in 1976, 8.3 per cant

 

F SELECTED DMCs: 1978)

Per Cent
16

 

 

 

 

In‘ India, consumer prices increased by 2.5 per :

ce (Tabla 6 Oniy-the. Republit’ of

  
 
 
  

 

in 1977 and 6.2 per cent in 1978. A number of DMCs experienced reduced rates of inflation during 1978. The
decreases were particularly significant in Burma, India, Ingonesia and Pakistan, among the large countries, and the
Cook Islands, Tonga and Western Samoa among the srnall
Pacific island countries. As in 1977, only a fow OMCs ex:
gerienced double-digit inflation. The overall inflationary
situation in DMCs continued to compare favorably witti the
average price increases experlenced by various other
groups ok countries.’ Prudent domestic fiscal and

monétary policies adapted by DMCs, the greater availability of goods and services due to economic growth — particularly the sustained improvements in food production - as wall ag more liberal imports all contributed to this
achievement.

The DMCs which experienced significantly higher rates
of inflation during the year were Bangladesh, Republic of
Korea, Singapore, Solomon tslands and Sri Lanka. Six
DMCs, namely, Bangladesh, Cook Islands, Gilbert Islands,
Republic of Korea, Solomon Islands and Sri Lanka cxperlenced rates of inflation at doubie- digit levels. The major factors which caused inflationary pressures in several
OMCs included expansionary monetary policies to accelerate the rate of growth in GNP, the depreciation of
some regional currencies and the continued high rate of inflation in the world economy generally.

“The overall vosilion regarding the external trade of
DMGs, which had improved steadily over the past iwo
years, showed a major raversal, if, 1978. The aggregate
trade deficit’of DMCs more qubled from about $5,500
million’ in 1977 to’an estimated $11,300 miltion in 1978
ina, among the injwstializediDMCs, improved its. position significantly dur
   
 
 

  

 

“sing:the yedi, bymore.than-doubling'its trade surplus of $830.

on In 197,10, $4,689 milllon.in 1978."Thie. was, brought
bout by. 2.86-percent:itcrease,|n exports; exgeeding the

“uyéryhigh (28 pér cent) increase ta its Imports. The remain
ing three industrialized DMCs (Hong Kong, Republic of
Korea and Singapore), which together nad succeeded iri
reducing their overall trade deficits in 1977, axparienced a
reversal in 1978, Their combined trade deficit nearly doubled. from $3,700 million in 1977 to $7,100 milhon in 1978.

. The. main Jactors. responsible were the liberalization of a
» owide-varlety. of imports and,.their. high ecanomic growth

rates, which Jed to a very sharp increase in imports. India
experienced a steep incraase in its trade deficit, trorn $420
million in 1877 lo $1,050 million in 1978, due ta a sharp increase in imports and a slow growth In exporls.

The trade deficit of “other DMCs” (exciuding the four industrialized DMGs and India) more than doubled from
$2,300 million in 1977 to $4,800 million in 1978. The small
trade surplus recorded by Sri Lanka in 1977 was converted
to a sizable daficit in 1978. The trade surplus of Indonesia

4 The cates uf inilation for major yroups of countries were:

4976 1977 1978

(por rent)
OECD countries 8.8 82 8.2
OPES countries 15.6 147 10.5
Non-oil duveloping covatrics 18.7 22.3 18.6

{aujusted)«was drastically reduced, while that of Malaysia was
:substantially lower. The bulk of the overall doficit for this
sgroup was accounted for by Bangladesh, Pakistan, Phillppines and Thailand. In most of these countries, exports in=creased In varying degrees; but the Tnctgase In jena ex:
ceeded the export growth:

 

 

   

FOREIGN TRADE OF DMCs: 1975-1978

US¢ Billloa
-100

g0

ao

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

16.7 per cent, which was jess than the 19 per cent growth
fate achieved in.1977. The exoort pectoymat IMCs differed significanily. India’s sxports increased by 5:4 per cent
fron $5,990 miftion in.1977 t6°36,310 miilion in°1978. The
ovérall growtli rat® of xports for ihe four” industvialized
“DMCs in 1978 was 26 per cant (24 par cant in 1977), while
the export growth rate for “other DMCS” was only 6.3 per
cent in 1978 compared with 18.5 per cerl in 1977.

The aggregate Imports of DMCs grew by 23.3 per cent in
1978, as against 18.8 per cent in 1977. A major part of the Increase was accounted for by the four industrialized DMCs,
whose Imports increased by 30 per cent from $40,250
million in 1977 to $52,400 million in 1978, India’s imports of
$7,380 million in 1978 were 15 per cent higher than the 1977
level of $6,400 million, due to the liberalization measures
adopted during the year. The imporis of “other DMCs" inCteased by 15 per cant, from $27,400 million-in 1977 to
$31,500 million in 1978, which was much higher than the increase in their exports during the year.

The latest available data on the diraction of trade flows
(1877) show the same basic patterns that existed In 1976,
viz,, Japan, the United States and Western Europe accounted far mast of the exports and imports of DMCs. They
absorbod 18 per cent, 25 por cent and 18.1 pert cent,respec
 

.as Bangladesh, Philippines and Srl banka, Hepupics of

The overall exports of DMCs during 1978 increased by

tively, of the total exports by DMCs, and supplied 24.4 per
cent, 15.8 per cent and 16.5 per cent, respectively, of their
total imports in 1977, To bring about significant changes in
the direction of trade flows Is a long and slow process, as It

requires the development of ‘new markets and the; "
establishment of new trade links: The share of.inirareglonal:trade showed a marginal improvement during the
year, In respect of both exports (from 17.2 per cent in 1976
to 17.8. per cent In 1977) and Imports (from 15.3 per cent In
1976 to’ 16 per cent in 1977). The share of Middic East.cou

tries 1fi the total trade ‘of OMCs has alsé rag era

  

moderate increase. While the share of the former countries

in ihe region's imports remained virtually unchanged, exports to these countries from the region incraased from 5.6
per cent of the total in 1976 to 6.4 per cent in 1977,

Most of the DMGs for which indices of export unit values
ate avaliable obtalned higher prices for thelr principal exporis during 1978. Of the 11 OMGs concerned, only Western
Samoa reported a jower export unil value index for 1978
compared with that for 1977, In several cases, this improvement was greater than the higher prices paid for thelr im
ports. ‘As a result, the terms of trade of. those. DMCs’ Im---..-+ +4

proved. This improvement was shared by DMCs exporting
manufactured goods, such as the Republic of Korea, as
well as'‘DMCs exporting mainly primary commodities, such

@.ptevlous year. However, in ma oenee.
s of trade indices were still below: the levels-of:

NTERNATIONAL RESERVES 0
"1876-1978 |. |

“US$ Billion
35

   

  

   

1976 1976 i977

 

 

 

 
 

 

13ee Samaras a Nm ee ST aR AE OS ATES ND tte,

49708: Sevarat‘DMGE"for which indices of the terms of
trade. are -not available are reported to have faced depressed prices for their exports and resultant lower terms
of trade in 1978,

" The agqrégate international reserves of DMCs further improved’ during 1978, Data available for 20 DMCs (Table 7)

.. show that their combiried reserves increased from $26,900 >
-. ¢illion-at-the.end ef 4977.10 $30,800 million by the end of .

4978, In terms ‘of the totai import requirements of the
region, these reserves were equivalent to.about 4,7 months’
imports —' somewhat below the level in 1977 (5 months).
With the exception of Burma, Fiji, Pakistan, Tonga and
Western Samoa, al] reporting DMCs registered gains in International reserves during 1978. Substantial increases
were recorded by Afghanistan, India, Indonesia, Aepublic
of Korea, Mataysla, Philippines, Singapore, Sri Lanka and
Thailand, A significant development that has helped
several DMCs to earn more forelgn exchange and ac
cumutate reserves in recent years hag been the increasing.

contribution of remitlances received from their nationals
working in the Middle East countries: These remittances
have become an Important source of foreign exchange sar
nings — particularly in the case of Afghanistan,
Bangladesh, India, Republic of Korea, Pakistan and Phillppines.

The combined exlernal debts of OMCs have continued to
grow, reflecting the large net inflows of external resources
to the region, The data presented in Table 8 show that the

1g Bulled-t6 shore near Gaile, Sri Lanka, where a Fighéries Di
onal teuri, following earlier technical assistance. 
 

   

per cent from $40,100 miltio’

"4978, In 1977, this increased by 18 per Cent’ to $56,200

miltion, While no data jor 1978 are avallable as yet, the
large increases In external defies during 1078 would
have necésiltated substan rowings, by he DMCs’
conterned. The debt setvice fatiés of most DMCs remained

   

   
 
 

  
 

fairly low,in 197 vever, iia few Cases, the debt service

 

 

burdens seem tc have been. presging “agalist “prudent” ™
limits, particularly when aécount is taken of the large
private debts that have also beén incurred. The relief afforded by the conversion into grants of some past official loans
provided by a number of doveloped éouniries io poorer
DMCs has cased, to some extent, thelr debt servicing difficulties. .

  

Domestic Efforis and Policies

The sustained and fairly high economic growth rates
recorded by most DMCs in recent years, exceeding even
thely own growth performances prior to the oil crisis of
1973, are among ihe most encouraging davelopments of
this decade. Appropriate national development efforts and
the adoption of sound economic policies, including
realistic adjustments of such policies jn response to the
aliered international climate and changing internal conditions, have contributed greatly to this achievement,

(n racent years, the development strategies pursued by
most DMGs have generally sought te achieve a balancedgrowth of both industry and agriculture. The structures and
patterns of investment have been oriented so as to
strenghten the linkages among the various sectors and
meet the growing domestic demands increasingly from in_:ternal sources. Reducing their dependence on Iimports of
‘key products, such as food, fuel and. fertilizers, has re.
“mained an important objective for most DMCs, At the same
time, they Nave attempted to enhance their capabilities te
‘> garn foreign exchange by acquiring greater com‘spetitiveness and diversitying beth their export products
and markets. :
~The fiscal and monetary pata aiiraiiacd by pMcs ‘nave
generally sought to help mobitize additional resources for
development. An important indicator of the success of
PMCs. in this regard is the extent to which some of thern
have been abie tu finance their development expenditures
_. fram their own resources. Data on domestic savings,
’ capital formation and “resource gaps” for 13 DMCs expressed as percentages of their GDP are presented in Table
3 for the period 1975-1977. The average share of capital formation in GDP is high in most cases (exceeding 30 per cent
“in-two DMGs, 25 per cent in three DMCs, 20 per cent In three:
DMCs and 15 per cent in four DMGs). These high levels of
investment were largely financed from domestic savings.
‘The “resource gaps” have been in most cases less than 6
‘per-cant of GDP and are generally declining. In a few DMCs,
“domestic savings have been in:excess of investments,
: ‘During 1978, DMCs in general cantinued io pursue sod
‘economic policies aimed at sustaining satisfactory rates of
   

   

 

_and underemployment. — espesially..in the rural. areas.
“Some of the more populated DMGs, where poverty ts ac!
{such as Bangladesh, Burria, -liidia, indondsia, -N
Pakistan, Philippines and Thalland); indertook specific.

 

 
 
 

     
  
 

“aise income fevels and generally ‘i iinbfove: the. quality of
Jife. The allainment of self-sufflolericy.in food producti
and development of indigend ‘esourees remain
the major objectives of their development policies and efforts.

Several DMCs (Bangladesh, Malaysia, Thailand and Sri
Lanka) implemented poticy changes during the'year with a
” yiew to encouraging greater domestic prlvate investment

  

  

centrated on slrengthening their long-tarm export
canabilltias through a variety of measures, including exchange rate realignments and/or increased efforts to
stabilize their economies not only to promote exporis but
‘atso ta enhance the efficiency of !ocal industries which, in
‘some cases, are averly protected from external competition.

Although the task of opening up Lheir domestic econo: mies to increased external competiton involves complex
if structural problems of a fong-term nature for most DMCs, a
few of them (Republic of China, India and Republic of
Korea) took advantage of their improved international
reserve positions to adopt more liberal Impart policies and
to reduce tariffs.

Many DMCs continuc actively to: pursue measures
aimed at reducing their population growth rates. In pari" ticular, Bangladesh, indonesia, Philippines and Thailand,
sl have ail adopted comprehensive family planning programs
= and laid down syecific short and medium-term goals to

 

w

 

 

Tera

ax

 

“economic growth and alleviating poverty, unemployment ,

grams to increase employiient: Opportunities for the poor,

"tion have ‘agreed to cooperate with the United Nations En

and also to attract private foreign investors. A-few DMCe- ” (india, Indonesia, Pakistan; Nepal and Sri Lanka) also cory

reduce their population growth rates. The Philippines and
Thailand have both reported some success in this regard in
1978. Some other DMCs (Burma, Republle of China, India,
Republic of Koreas, Singapore and Sri Lanka), which over
the years have progressively and, in some cases, substan- .
tlally ‘reduced their population growth rates, maintained
this trend during 1978.

Developments in Regional Cooperation

Continuing progress was made in economic cooperation
among member countries of the Association of Southeast
Asian Nations (ASEAN) in 1978. ASEAN’s preferential
trading arrarigements (PTA) became effective an 1 January.
At the ASEAN Economic Ministers’ Meeting in Jakarta in
June, it was agreed that the scope of PTA should be continuously expanded with each of the participants adding to
the list of items to be so traded. As a result, thie number of
PTA ilems grew from 71 to 826 by 1 September. At the
ASEAN Economic Ministers’ Meeting in Kuala Lumpur in
December, agreements on the establishment of urea projects in Indonesia and Malaysia were initialled under the.
ASEAN Industrial) Gomplementation Program. The.
Ministers also agreed to expedite the establishment of an
ASEAN emergency rice reserve amounting to 50,000 m.t.
and decided that efforts should be made.by various special:
ized ASEAN. agencies to achieve greater self-reliance in.
shipping. ine future. ,

There were also several Important developments in co.
operation aniong the Pacifle island countrles In 1978. The
Conference approved the establishment. ote a,
ic Board for Educational Assassment, The Cor.
ference also adgpted a general resolution on regionalism
recommending increased fiexibllity in immigration, health, ©
communileation and transport policles to enable ihe:freer ,
movement of people, goods and ideas within. the South
Pacific region. in addition, both the Soutt Pacific Gommis- .;:
sion and:the South Pacific Bureau for Economic Caopera-. ;

 

 
 
 
 

 
  

 

vironmental Program In formulating a South Pacific . Regional Environment Program. A project document for
this purpose was approved by the South Pacific Con
’ ference in 1978.

At the regional conference of the Food and Agriculture ~
Organization (FAQ) in August 1978, several DMCs (Bang. -..ladesh, India, Indonesia; Lao People's Democratic: Republic, Malaysia, Nepal, Pakistan, Philippines and
Saciallst Republic of Viet Nam) officially endorsed an
agreement to establish a Center for Integrated Rural
Development for Asia and the Pacifle (CIRDAP) in Comilla,
Bangladesh. The main objectives of CIRDAP are lo raise
production, incomes and general living conditions for
small-scale farmers and other low-income groups in tural
areas,

The Economic and Social Commission for Asia and the
Pacific (ESCAP) organtzed an Inter-governmental Consultative Group Meeting in Bangkok in Novernber 1978 to
discuss the possibilities of establishing regional industries. Country representatives agreed that prefeasibility studies should be undertaken for 10-15 industrial
projects. itis expected that these studiss will be submitted
by ESCAP to governments in time to facilitate the next
meeting to be held in 1979

Silateral cooperation was also. further strengthened
among many DMCs. The technicat and financial assistance

 

15crepe in hoes ee

racy Sea tb PN pert meme ari

nee ARITA OS, ty eso en nce mare:

16

FARMERS who wi
eastern provinces,

 

   

provided by countries such as India, Republic ot Korea and
Singapore to other DMCs has increased, South Asian countries continued to pursue recent initiatives fur increased

cooperation in lhat subregion. Bangladesh and India |

agreed to'open a railway route across 4 short corridor of Indian tetritory to help Nepal conduct overland trade with
Bangladesh and use its ports for Nepal’s foreign trade

Developments in International Cooperation

The net inflow of financial resources fram ditateral and
multilateral sources to DMCs declined sharply, for the first
ime during the present decade, from $11,500 million in
1976 to $7,600 million in 1977 (Table 10). All major components were aftacted, but the largest decline was in
respect of private flows. Compiste data on resuurce inflows
during 1978 are not yet available. However, the large deficit
in trade and the addition to reserves suggest that the Inflow
of externa resourcas in 1978 would have been woll above
the level'in 1977. '

Several important developments in international
cooperation took place ‘during 1978, Perhaps the most relevant for poorer DMCs was the agreament reached regar
‘ding the second replenishment of the Asian Development

Fund (ADF), the soft-lending window of the Bank. The donor
member countries of the Bank, which are parlicipants in
the ADF, have undertaken to provide a total amount of
$2,150 million to finance the Bank's concessional lending
operations over the next four years on an expanded scale

benetit from-en, integrated Agricultural Development Project in Gawaryan.
Afghanistan: The Barik-assisted Project is aimed at improving water:sti pl

 

     

irrigation 8

 

FINANCIAL FLOWS FROM ALL SOURCES,
TO DMCs: 1

970-1977

 

$ Billlon
12

  

fore

6

nr

1970 7 72 73 7a 75 76 77“The decision by several developed couniries to initiate
rograms to convert past officlal loans into grants in order
)shelp ease the growing problems of external in.debdtedness that face low-income developing countries was
another important development during the year. Although
Conference: on international ‘Economic Cooperation
aid:in Paris in 1977 could not reach any formal agreement
on this matter, a few developed countrias have Initiated
eir own plans to reduce the heavy debt burdens of
‘developing countries. At the UNCTAD Ministerial Meeting
debts held ‘ii March 1978, a resoiution was adopted
ch states, inter alla, that the devaloped donor countries
seek to adopt measures to adjust the terms ot bilateral
ficial development assistance they have provided in the
asl.as a means of improving the net flows of such
‘assistance in the future. By the end of 1978, the countries
which had announced plans for providing such debt relief
cluded Canada, Denmark, Finland, Federal Republic of
Germany, Japan, Netherlands, Sweden, Switzerland and
riited Kingcom.'

‘Other notable initiatives taken during 1978 to increase
availability of external resources to DMCs for davelopent are the following: First, the quotas of the Internaonal Monetary Fund were increased by $25,000 million to
000 million. Second, the allocations of food aid by the
ld's more affiuent countries have, for the first time,
acl hed the minimum target of 10 million mt. set by the
id Food Conferences. Third, a resoivtion was apved under the’ auspices of the United Nations to proote greater te inical cooperation among developing
tries; Fourth, i member countries of the Warld Bank
eU near unanimity on the need for a general. increase
sapital resources of that Bank to cover its lending
pe tions In the next five to seven years.

 

  

   

 

 

ig of,Germany.in July 1978, the: Heads o

71 the basis of prant assistance.

     

dnomie- Summit Meeting held In- the.

recent years, the aid programs of Australia and Norway hava besn entire
Government for Canada, Federal Republic of Germany,
France, Italy, Japan, United Kingdom and United States
recognized the need for better access to their markets for
the products of. developing countries in future. They also
promised an increased flow of financial assistance and
other resources to the developing countries, including. increased concessional aid for the pocrer.daveloping countrles. In addition, they agreed to actively pursue negotiations on the proposed Common Fund with a. view to
roaching a successful conclusion as soon as possible, and
to cuiitinue thellefforts to Gonclude Individual’ commodity
agreements and somplete on-going .studies on various
ways of stabilizing the export earnings of developing countries.

The Independent Commisston on International Development Issues, headed by Willy Brandt, former Ghancalior of
the Federal Rapublic of Germany, continued Its detiborations and consultations with concerned individuals In both

developed and developing countries. its latest meeting dur.

ing the year was held at Kuala Lumpur in November.

The Slrategy for itie United Nation's Third Development
Decade is now being considered. While the detalls remain
to be worked out, matters involving Integrated rural
development, appropriate technology, ecological balance,
income redistribution and employment generation will constitute essential components of this strategy. These objec
~- tives will also undoubtedly de findamental élemants of the

national development strategles ‘pursued “by individual
DMGs in the coniing decade: In ‘tne: immedidte- future,
however, the fainthrust of the development'strategiés. of

= most’ ‘DMCs for achieving these: broad: objectives will re:

 

quire “continuing ‘emphasis’ higher. agriquitiral productlon'— partlctilary of foodgraiss.
tion. The. pattern and, scale ‘of produotion’é as well as choice

  

ted to the pursuit of Such goals through ‘the loan and
téchini¢al assistance it provides to its DMCs,

 

‘and: ragid industrialize
17. Lending Operations

IN 1978, the Bank achieved an impressive level of
‘asaistanee to the ragion, the lotal loan approvals exceeding one billion dollars for the first time. Project loans,
together’ with one program loan, totalled $1,159 million.
. Nearly one-third of the Idan ‘commitments was on conces
sional terns and went ‘to the poorer countries. Significant
’ made? ‘in’ the “area of” Co-financing and

 
    
  

F ver the ‘previous year.
ing: the'year,a ‘Youal: Gf'53foaris for $2 projects in 18
oping meinber eounrrils {OMCs} was approved, com
    
  
 
 

9 ‘aduition ihe Bank'réactivated six loans lotalling
16.6 mulllion previously approved jor tive projects in Viet
Nam.!

Loans from ordinaty capital resources amounted to $778
million, an increase of 27 per cent (18,3 per cent In real
-ferms) over the 1977 figure of $615 million. A modest improvement in the availability of resources facilitated the approval of Special Funds loans totalling $381 million, an increase of nearly 40 per cent (30.8 per cent in real terms) over
the concessional lending total of $272 milllon in 1977. In
"4978, 89 per cent of Special Funds loans went to countries
. Which had a per capita GNP of less than $200 in 1975.

Five DMCs received {oans exclusively from ordinary
capital resources, namely, Fiji ($16.2 million), Hong Kong
($19.5 million), Republic of Korea ($150 million), Mataysia
($93.1 million) and Singapore (19 million).

Four DMCs received loans fram both ordinary capital
“tesources and Special Funds in 1978. Indonesia received
$198.7 milllon in loans, consisting of $174.7 million from or‘dinary caplial resources and $24 million from Special
. Funds, Pakistan reesived a total of $143.6 million in loans,
. consisting of $57.1 million from ordinary capital resources
and $86.5 million -from Special Funds, The Philippines

1 Binh Dinh, Irigatinn Project, Salgon Fower Project, Go Cong Ploneer
Agricultural Projact, Tan An Integrated Agriculturat Project and Satgon
Water Distrlbution Project. The Saigon Water Distribution Project Invelved
loans from both ordinary capital resources and Spacial Funds.

OCONUTS being unloaded at a piantatian in Western
2, where an agricultural development project ts help
® Wester: Samoa Trust Estates Corporation to in@ its productivity.

 

‘Funds. Arfetan ha been

_ OPERATIONS AND POLICIES

 

received loans totalling $119.5 miliion, including $14 million
from Special Funds. Thalland received $157.1 million in
loans, including $14 million fram Special Funds.

Nine DMCs ‘Teceived loans exclugively from Special,
Funds, namely, Af¢hanistan ($7.45 million), Bangladesh
($20.3 million), Burma ($65.5 million), .Lao People’s
Democratic Republic ($8 million}, Nepal ($25 million), Papua
New Guinea ($12.4 million), Sri Lanka ($33.9 million}, Tonga
($1.5 million} and Wesien Samea ($4 million).

The Bank: continued to pay special attention to its gmail
DMCs, whioh received five loans-totalting $34
iilion. in seven loans in

 
  

 
 
   

the previou :

   

joan of $7.96 million from Special Funds for the Rangoon
Water Supply Project in Burma, Five technical assistance

foang tatalling $9.04 million were approved — $7.59 million .

irom ordinary capital resources for two projects each in Indonesia and Thailand and $1.45 million from Special Funds
for one projact in Afghanistan, These technical assistance
loans were made for feasibllity Studies, master plans and
the preparation: of detalled designs and (ender documents
for area development, ports, airports and multipurpose projects,

The average size of loans approved in 1978 increased to
$21.9 milllon, from $19.7 million in 1977. Exclucing the supplementary and technical assistance joans mentioned
earlier, the average loan amount in 1978 was $24.3 million,
as compared to $20.4 million in 1977. This result is largely
attributable io 22 loans being approved for amounts larger
than $25 million (compared with 15 in the previous year).

The largest Bank-financing of any project in 1978 went Lo
the Pipri Thermal Generation Project In Pakistan, for which
$60 million in all was approved — $25 million from ordinary
capital resources and $35 million from Special Funds. The
largest loan made from ordinary capital resources during
the year was $50 miltion lo the Korea Development Bank,
and the smallest was an engineering loan of $1.3 million for
the Domestic Airports Project in Indonesia. The largest
loan made from Special Funds was $61.5 million for the

§ were from, Special:

    

18LOAN APPROVALS IN 1978 AND TOTAL PROJECT COSTS
(amounts In $ mijlion) a

 

  
 
   
   

; : Ordinary Total
Country/Projact Capital —_ Project
; ‘ unds

5 Resources Casts
AFGHANISTAN, DEMOCRATIC REPUBLIC OF

Seraj Agricultural Development ‘ - 1.45 2,35
BANGLADESH

Pabna lrrigation and Rural Development _ 38.00 85.15

Livestock Services Development and Training — 12.40 20.00

Second Bangladesh Shilpa Bank _ 25.00 
Educational Equipment Davalopment — 6.00 8.00

Low-Lift Pump Maintenance Program _ 8.99 9.48
BURMA ne eel :

Second Fisheries Davelopment : , - . 26.00 $8.30

Rangoon Water Supply (Supplementary} oe - 7.96 61.67

Pyinmana Integrated Sugar: . — , 31.50 74.70
Fidl

Second Power Project 23.10 
 

 

HONG KONG mo
‘ 111.70
INDONESIA
, Southeast Sula

and Area Dev 67.12,

 

Ball lirlgati

* Ujung Pandang I if :
Third Road pe 61.00
Domestic Airports 2.29
Second Power Distribution 45.00

Fifth Port een. soe at
Taluk Lada Area Development (Phase II} ”
Senior Technical Schoals .

100.48
§.03
08

 

  

Me ye

 

KOREA, REPUBLIC OF “fae 6 aes

ut

Fifth Korea Developrnent Bank | * . 60.00 = — Applied Research Institutes sO 33.00 _ 93.16
Mineral Resources Development ‘ 8.00 _ 9.30
Fifth Small and Medium Industry Bank 40.00 _- _

Second Fisherles Development . 19.00 - 35,30

LAO PEOPLE'S DEMOCRATIC REPUBLIC

Forestry Development . = 8,00 18,50
MALAYSIA - .

Trengganu Tengah Township Development’ * 46.00 _ 40.56

Trengganu Hydropower 45.40 > 319.50

Johor Perak and Trengganu Water Supply 34.74 aes 68,74LOAN APPROVALS IN 1978 AND TOTAL PROJECT COSTS

 

 

 

 

 

 

   

  

 

 

| {amounts in $ million) oe
if 1977 . 1978 : 1968-1978
i | Country OCR SF Total OCR SF Total OCR SF Total
i 1 Afghanistan — 14.70 14,70 _ 1.45 1.45 = 75,00 75,00
ue Bangladesh — 84.75 84.75 — 90,30 90.30 41.40 353.93 365.33
HE Burma — 28.40 25.16 = 85.46 (65.46 : 6.60 196,66 203,28,
i Cambodia = _ - — - - _ 1.87 1.67
if Ghina, Rep. of - - ~ _ os _ 99.99 = 939,99
; Fijt - - — 16.20 — 16.20 22.90 — 22.90
Gilbert Islands - oe - “ ~ _ os 1.76 1.76
Hong Kong 20.50 — 20.60 19.50 — 19.50 84.50 ~ 81.50
t Indonasia 136.00 136.00 174.71 24.00 198.71 673.70 137,28 710.98
iy" Korea, Rep. of 136.15 — 435,15 450.00 — 150.00 832.76 3.70 836.45
i Lao People's
i Dem. Rep - _ - _ 8.00 8,00 — 19,69 19.69
i Malaysia 43.30 — 43.30 93.14 — 93.14 427.00 3.30 430.30
ay Nepal — 23.50 23.50 = 2.00 25.00 . _. 2.00 148,34 150.34
| i Pakistan 68.00 71.00 139,00 57.10 86.50 143.60 423.07 290.36 713.42
q Papua
. & i New Guinea 17.70 — 17.70 — 1240 12.40 17.70 47.94 65.64
¥ Philippines 147.00 147.00 105.50 i400 119.50 700.85 29.30 730.15
a Singapore | - - _ 19.00 — 19,00 143.98 3.00 148,98
ae Solomon 7 . : ‘ .
Pf islands ~ 5.64 5,63 ee te: = oo . 9.20 9.20
Sri Lanka - — 41.50 41.50 — 3390 33.00: 14.49 © 137.44 181.24
Thaliand 700° — 47.00 443.08 14,00 157,08. 496.38 “22,10 517.48
Tonga _ 0,37 0.37 — "150 ASO, 22: — : a7 3.417
Viet Nam °° — = _ = 40.67 44.60
Western” vad. 7
Samoa ~ 5.25 5.25 “4.60 22.84 22.84
TOTAL 614.65 271,80 886.45 - 880.51 1,168:74 © :-:9,856.88" 1547.00 5,403.88

   

 

 

 
  

{ Cumulative tatal adjusted to account for rclinaricing In 1976 of Southeast Sulawesi Transmigration and Area Developmunt Project (Indonesia) tor $280,000 and Mindanao Seconda
and feeder Roads Project (Philippines) foc $500,600.

 

22

D.G, Khan, Cement Project in Pakistan, and the’ smallest
was an engineering loan of $1.45 million tor the Seraj
Agricultural Development Project in Afghanistan

The total costs of projects approved In 1978, excluding
DFI projects, are estimated at $2,892 million, of which Bank
financing accounted for 36 per cant. In addition, the Bank
has been able to heip mobilize a part of the other project
financing required through increased resort to co-flnancing
arrangemenis. in lhe case of the seven loans made to DF ts,
the rclovant suhloans have not yet been fully identified.
However, on the basis of the Bank's past experience, the
total costs of the projects financed by these soven loans
could be of the order of $655 million,

By the end of 1978, the Bank’s cumulative lending had
reached $5,404 million for 359! projects m 23 DMCs. Of
these, loans totalling $3,857 million were trom ordinary
capital resources and $1,547 million were from Special
Funds.

4 excluding live projects which were refinanced,

In addition to financing the foreign exchange costs of the
goods and services required for these projects, the Bank
has also jinanced, In specific circumstances, interest and
othar charges during construction as well as a portion of
the local currency expenditures on certain projects.

The financing of interest and other charges during construction airns at relieving the executing agencles concerned of the financial strain during the construction period of
lhe projects, and also easing the debt-sorvice burden on
DIGs before the projects start yieldIng benefits. In 1978,
the Bank financed interest and other charges amounting to
$141.7 million from ordinary capital resources, In respect of
three loany to two countries

in considering local cost financing, the Bank places
primary emphasis on a OMC's economic situation, particularly its overall balance uf payments position and its
ability to mobilize domestic resources. Consequenily,
preference is given to projects with low foreign exchange
costs and/or high economic and social benefits. In 1978,local currency financing components totalling $60.6 niilhor
were included in 12 loans to five countries —- $26.7 mililonTOTAL
$2,892
Million

CO-FINANCIERS,
$434. Million:

 

 

 

Medium Industry Bank.

 

 

from ordinary capital resources and $33.9 milllon from
Special Funds. These accounted for 3.4 percent and 8.9 por
cent, respectively, of the total loans approved from ‘iNesé

fégources in 1978; The criteria for lending foreign exchange.

toctinance local currency expenditures-on™ projects: will -’e
viewed by the Board in 1979,

The Bank has promoted the development of manpower In
OMCs by providing increasing assistance for education
and training purposes, including the training of counterpart
stalf on projects. The Bank has also sought opportunities
for the application of appropriate technology in projects,
taking into account the individual csonamic characteristics
in DMGs, The Bank has similarly paid special! attention to
environmental aspects in various projects. One of the Applied Research Institutes in the Republic of Korea being

  

tinanced by the Bank will oe angaged in the study of ocean”

environment, with specific reference to its conservation,

‘and will also undertake research on ocean pollution,

Evaluation of environmental impact also features in a
nuniber of projects such as area development, wale: supply, forestry, irrigation, power and ports. A special aspect
of the hospital projact in Singapore is that the design of the
buildings will incorporate energy saving measu!es Such as
shading devices and solar heating.

ieee with a Bank sublogs through the “Sms atid

         
 

 

23CO-FINANCING ARRANGEMENTS CONCLUDED iN 1878
{amounts In § millicn)

 

  

 

    
  

     

 

. o_ Hank hoan. = Amount of .
Project Couniry OCR SF Co-Financing Sources of Co-Financt
*Pabna Irrigation and Rural
“Development Bangladesh - 38.00 90,00, IFAD *
Second Fisherles Developrnent Burma _ 26,00" TA42 EEC
Pyinmana tnlegrated Sugar Burma _— 31.50 6.50 OPEC Special Fund
Second Power Fiji 16.20 - (15.60 (BRO ‘
(14.80 European Investment Bank}
(9.10 United Kingdom €
Southeast Sulawesi Transmigration Indonesia 34.30 - ( 5.99" EEC
and Area Devoloprent (10,00 Islamic Development Bank
Fifth Port Indonesia 26.30 - 40.39 Fed. Rap. of Germany
Trengganu Hydropower _ Malaysia 45.40 _ ( 4.50 Australia
oo {12.00 Japan
EE Geet cee © gS {20,00 Kuwalt
Sagainath Forestry Davalopment® » Napal = 4.90 3.00 OPEC Special Fund
tntagrated Rural Development Nepat _ 14.00 ( 3.75 ERG
: roe (43.00 IFAD
Second Tribhuvan International Nepal 11.00 5,00 _ OPEC Special Fund
“be Alport 26. yo fh eke b - oe °
Tarbela Hydropower®: Pakistan — 38.00
“ PipricThermal Generat “Pakistan 26.00 35,00
Philippines 49.00 Philippines 9.00" ~
Sri Lanka. - 24.00%
Thatland _ 14.00
Thailand. 1.38 =
Tonga . x 1.39
» 206.58 287.70

 

 

Loan amount was subsequently reduced by $1.12 million as a result of ¢o-tinanelny from EEC.
Including technical assistance grant of $2.37 million.
Bask loan was approved.in 1977.

» Godtinancing. with Ganada for $35.1
Losh amount was subsequently re

 

coat was, congluded In 1977 .
by $4'millidn #8 @ result of no-tinancing trom {FAD.

 

oon owe

 

th =
eee SW Steere evap

 

24

The Bank made a slart in the field of program lending in
1978 with a loan to Bangladesh for low-lift pump
maintenance to strengthen the pump installations and servicing operations in Ihe Dacca division.

Co-Financing

The main objective of co-financing is lo help mobilize a

- larger inflow of foreign resources to meet the developrnenl

needs of DMCs. Cu-linancing has enabled the Bank to
finance large-scale projects, the financing requirements of
which might have been difficult to mest entirely from the
Bank’s own resources, In view of the advantages to hoth
the Bank and DMGs, the Bank has been placing an increasing emphasis on co-financing activities,

The Bank initiated co-financing with cther external
sources for projects in DMCs in 1970. Since then, the

Bank's co-financing activities have gradually expanded and

diversified, The co-tinanciers al present Include not only
traditional sources but also many new ald agencies, as well
as export credit insillulions and private sources.

During the year, the Bank achieved a record level af cofinancing: 18 projects! Involved. funds from co-financiers
fotalling $434 million. The Bank's share tor these projects
was $444 million? and their lotal cost was estimated at
$1,762 million. This represents a significant increase in
comparison with eight projects co-financed in 1977, with
funds from co-financiers amounting to $56 milllon. Since
1970, co-financing has been arranged for 47 projects, for
which the Bank has provided $1,013 million and cofinanciers $1,092 milton.

1 Including fou projects approveu in 1977 or carller for which colinancing
arrangementa were constudud in 1878.

2 Bank stnanciny ioe lwo projects was subseqiently reducad by a tolal of
$5.12 million as a resull of co-financing“With the exception of an export credit of $15.4 million
rom France, all of the Bank’s co-financing in 1978 has been
agrranged with officlal sources, both bilateral and
” tnulfilateral. Traditional donar countries such as Australia,
vance, Japan, Federal Republic of Germany ‘and United
ngdom made available $82.2 millfort “through coancing, and two OPEC countries, Kuwalt and Saudi
abia provided a further. $112 million. Among the
yitilateral sources, the World Bank and United Nations
velopment Programme (UNDP) co-financed projects wil
Bank with atounts totalling $100.8" million,’ whé
olher multilateral institutions, namely, European Economic
Gommunity (EEC), European Investment Bank (E16), International Fund for Agricuttural Development (IFAD), Islamic
Development Bank {IsDB) and OPEC Special Fund {OSF),
contributed $123.66 million.

In.ihe light of the experience gained in the past and the
prospects for increased co-financing in the future, ihe Bank
will review Its co-financing pallcles and practices during
79,

Ba

3al

ectoral Review

riculture and Agro-Industry

   

to-industry in 1978 feflacted the: 8ank’s sustalned &
on this giitical development sector over. the ye
‘or Covers “irrigation and rural de

 

 
   
  

nding and technical assistance for. Agriculture and .

   
 
   
      

fisheries, ugricultural credit, livestock, seed production,
forestry, fertilizer and agro-processing.

In terms of overall Bank lending, this sector again atiracled the largest stare in 1978, Of total loans, 26.8 per
cent was approved for these activities, the ovarall share in
the period 1968-1976 being 25.2 per cent. Similarly, this sec
tor received the largest’ share, — 64.2 per cent: — of the
Bank's technical assistanco outlays in 1978; over the
period 1988-1978 this share has averaged 50.8 per cent.
Total | lending in thls sector'té the end of 1978 amounted

assistance in this same area has amounted to about $24
million,

The Bank’s strategy for agricultura! assistance has continued to place emphasis on an integrated approach to
rural development, land utilization, water management and
expansion of rural employment as a means of dealing with
the persisting problems of unemployment and
underemployment, poverty and malnutrition among the
tural population in DMCs,

.he types of projects the Bank has supported and the

kinds of designs it has encouraged to date can be summarized as follows: (i) among resource davalapment ac
tivities, Irigation (with particular attention being paid to

tértiary canal systems) and-marine fishing have received
special ic a (ii) in shoes aa We caren concentra

 

 

 

   

~ 380.84

o “altidst $1,960 million for .109 projecis, Technical”

25wresbarctt’ pe i

 

LOAN APPROVALS BY SECTOR TO END OF 1978
(amounts in $ million)

 

   
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
   
 

 

 

4977
Sector ———_ OCR SFR Total
Agriculture and Agro-Industry 105.50 154.20 259.70
Agriculture "405.50 148,50 254.00
Agro-industry — 8.70 5.70
Industry 40.00 2.62 : 42.62
Development Banks 96.00 ae 95.00
Power 163.36 54.25 217.60
Transport and Communications 129,00 17.03 146.03
Water Supply 45.30 29.50 84.80
Urban Development 20,50 — 20.50
Education 16.00 4.20 20.20
Hoalth ~ ro =
TOTAL 614.65 271,80

 

 

 

wood ‘(almost cqual emphasis); (iii) the intended
benaficiaries of project assislanee have mainly bean small
farmers and fishermen; (ivy: assistance with research, extension services and iraining in ‘agriouitural/ruras development
actiVittés:has baen extended maiily in the form of building
special, pomponents: (¢.9,; demonstration farms, local
eaispecitic projects and
lities iti ruraberedit institu
   
  
  
    

 

TOTAL
Bi 78.29
Million

HEALTH - URBAN
4.9% DEVE! OPMENT
2.1%

 

     
   

“s
EDUCATION —/
7.9%

WATER SUPPLY —~

3.5%

of ciival institutions and develabment, agencié
areas has principally taken the fortn ‘ol providing: r

TOTAL
5480.51
Mitton

 
  

TRANSPORT & 9.9%

INDUSTRY

 
 
   

L DEVELOPMENT

 
   
 
   
   
     
 

 
   

13.5%

  

RANKS

COMMUNICATIONS

 

2.5%Total °°

 

310.74:

237-34
°°73.40..
424360":

15750
249.20:
13810
94,10
— 16.00
30:00 30.00
- 38.50

 

 

1,158.74

 

ings of a tk body of recerit regearch from a wide variety
i neluding. thes Second ian-Agricultural Survey,
g Ad fate thal’ the major
¢ decade will ‘be Wi.
ad poveity..among rural

   

Asveldnment panning has been exlehaeer ratty in hee
ty studies for project preparation; and (vii),
OM, “regional activitles, nearly all assistance has:
een-of the “project” type, involving the financing’ of
-speolfic capital Investment activities which are scheduled isatisiactory, porformance of. agricultural
‘for completion within pre-determined periods, production and distribution. syste ii} implementation
With regard. to. agriculture and the rural economy, the fine” * ‘eapacities “of both Government - can figrassryots” levels.

 
   
  
   
     
  

 

_ ORDINARY LOAN APPROVALS os SPECIAL FUNDS LOAN APPROVALS
ms BY SECTOR Ta END OF 1978 i ;

 

 

 

  

TATAL
$1,547.00
Milton

  

TOTAL
$3,855.88
Millon

        

   
 

 

| ‘ DEVELOPMENT
URBAN TRANSPORT & } BANKS
DEVELOPMENT COMMUNICATIONS 7.1%

  

peau] — 1

1.0%
ld EDUCATION ° cite EDUCATION
oe 88%

 

 

 

 

 

2728

 

  

1 pump maintenance hasvadr eudy baonir

which are inadequale for the development task, and {iv)
continuing neglect, with increasingly serious consequences, of certaln vital eco-systems.

In considering the initiatives needed frem DMC Governmants, the Bank nas’ neted the importanes of making
agriculture and rural develcpment strategy the centerpiece
vl overall economic planning, with probable adjustments to
and Interactions with a wide range of economlc policies
ahd business activities in thase countries.

Looking he future, the ewlng Its
priorities and examining ¢ t signing
“bankable” projects as well as'the need To adjust its present operational policies. The Bark wilcantinuete provide
capital Investment to davalop directly or indirectly the land,
water and human resources of rural areas, In most counies of the region, the possibilities of further expanding the

at cultivated area are very limited, so that the greatesi emate will have to be placed on increasing annual produstion per hectare trom land already uridét cultivation, Promotion of non-land-using ecanomic activity: will also be’ required, to reduce L the, presen} underemployment of the rural
workfores, :

_lrrigation and Rural Devieaere |

   
 

 

 

rniltion were “approver
ding to oP, a million:
‘loans,
Fecal assiste
and, .

 
 

n 1978 tor low-lift

intioned, Thé other

“loans ranged from $14 mitlion each forthe Integrated Rural
Development Project in Nepal and, the Second. usan
‘Tigation Project In the Philippinos {8° $34.3 million for the
Southeast Sulawesi Transmigration’ and Arga Development
Project in Indonesia and $38 million for the Pabna Irrigation
and Rural Development Project in Bangladesh.

  

The program Inan, mate: to. Banglade, 5

 
 

 

Fisheries: ‘During the year under review, four loans were
rade io'the ‘fisheries sub-sector, 0 iprising, $26 million
fara Second’ Fisheries Dewi lopment, Project in Burma, $19

i Ment Project in the

  
 

  

Pen, Develeprient Project In the Philippines, and $14 miliion

~ for an Aquaculture Development Project In Thailand,

At the end of 1978 fhe Bank had provided a total of $214.8
million in loans for 19 fisheries projects, an additional
$742,400 for fisheries components in loans for three rural
development ‘projects, and about $1,7 million for 12
technical assistanée projacts in nine DMCs.

There is a high potential for the further development of
ihe fisheries of the region. The improvement of the incornes
of fishermen is of prime Importance those projects where
they are the direct boneticiaties. The Bank’s cxporience
shows that these incomes cain smprove by belween 40 and
80 per cent as a result of such projects. Damand for fish as
a ragional protein source is high and rising, and the Bank's
activities in this sub-sector are expected to receive increasing allenlion in future.

Livestock: At the and of 1978, loans for livastock develapment In the region amounled to $16.3 million for three pro
ret ofthe len,
10 provide:

   

Assistance grants willy a total value of $1. 8 million fori

PU
the Laguna de Bay Fish’

 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
    
  
  
       
   
  
 
 
    
   

   
 
 
  
  

million for ‘livestock combinant it loans era
development’ projects, and has also approved tech:

other projects in this sub-sector. °° ¥f
” During the year under review, a loan of $12.4 million fram
Special Funds wes made to Bangladesh for the develop."
ment of livestock services, vaccine production and training
facililies. This project. was accompanied by technical
assistance grants’ of $350,000 for institution building and.
project preparation. In addition, technical assistance ©
grants amedntitig’ to" $640,000 were approved: for” the
prapatation Gf livestock projects in Pakistan, Nepal and In”
donesia. These projects reflect the Bank’s growing lnvelyetent in livestock development, which Is of considerable importance to the rural population, particularly the
smallholder farming cornmunities.

While Increased production of animal protein is an important result of livestock devolopment, the Bank's invalve
ment in this sub-sector has noi been confined to .this
aspect, Glose attenlion has also been given to improving
animal nealth services for the-protectlon of draft animals,
which are so important for agricultural production in the 4
region,

Forestry: As of 31 December 1978, the Bank had made
three loans iotatling $38 million and eight tachnical
assistance grants totalling $994,700 for this sub-sector.
Forestry also features as a component cf a number of rural
and area development joang, while some forest industries
have reccived funds indirectly through DFIs supported by
the Bank.The Bank's sectoral strategy for forsstry is broadly
aimed.at the rational utilizalion of existing forest resources
and the development of new plantings, the integration of

” forestry with other land-uses, the development and improvement of the necessary institutions, and care for the

sumption of forest products unless the present rate of
reforestation can be substantially improved. and efficient
forest Management maintained.

Agro: industry: Two loans were approved from Spacial
Funds for the processing of agricultural products during
the year, both involving sugar preduction for domestic consumption, A loan of $33.9 million went to Sri Lanka to
"develop a sugar cane plantation, build an irrigalion network
ang install a factory; this loan was accompanied by a
“ technical assistance grant of $205,000, The second loan
“was to Burma, comprising $31.5 million to build a sugar facory and construct a related storage dam, reservoir, irrigajon and other tacilitles; part of this project was co: financed: by.the OPEC Special Fund,

These loans bring cumulative lending in the agrodustry sub-sector to $323.6 million.

Industry and Development Banks

qHajority of OMGs have asgigned a high priority to inrialization: as -4- strategy: for achieving : atcelerated

‘sification,

greater employment, “amore © equitable distribu
the Third Agricuiturat Credit Project finartie by the Baok.

  

environment. Research Indicates that the region as a whole °
will face a mounting deficit between production and con:.*

nomic development, Improvernents jn the balance of-ents thraugh-impert. substitution: ‘and/or export diver-. ;

tion of income and wider ownership of the means of production are among the benefits sought from industrialization.

Efforis al industrialization have generally beer twopronged, On the one hand, the establishment of small and
medium-scale industries in the countryside to generate
greater employment, improve manual and managerial skilts
and enhance the quality of entrepreneurship has been actively pursued. On the otfier hand, the setting up of large industrial projects embodying economies of scale has been
considered equally important. Although by ‘théir nature
such large-scale projects are relatively technology and
capital intensive; they play an important part In strengthening and diversifying the manufacturing sector, widening the
possiblities of Industrial growth, and allowing fuller and
more efficient utilization of existing capacity through
linkage atfects with other sectors of ihe economy.

The Bank's lending has supported both of these efforts
towards industrialization. By channelling credits through
DFis, the Bank has substantially assisted DMCs in
establishing small and medium-scale industry’ projects

‘which are too numerous, tod ‘siriall and gedgraphically

scattered to permit Bank assistance ori a direct basis. Tha
large industrial projects have been more direct rectpients of
Bank loans and technical assistance. Efforts at assisting
these will continue as long as opportunities for the balanclng of industrial capacily in. an: appropriate marhef and -viable prospacts for troadening the {ndyptetal atrdeture In‘
DMCs exist. | uw .

_ ln addition to providing oredita: for thie creation ig éxgan
sion of industrial capacity, the Bank recognizes thie ioten- a

  
 

. ‘FARMERS in Nepal wil be diavided with Wigation facilities for about 18,000 hectares bemeiiiig :sbnte 000 fei; uhidor en1 crrmemmetc

= punsee ist Sf SEMEN DATE: PII RN

neste.

herpes

 

 

 

30

‘tidl afforded py Industrial estates ‘Ih accelbra
‘' tidhalizifig the development af industry, part!
small and medium-scale type required in rural areas, The —

* Industry: Four loans totalling $124.6 mi

TREATMENT plant of the Greater ipoh Water Supply Prof
Hiver 6

 

  

 

    

ang

arly. of the

Bank has also supported the development and strengthen:
ing of industrial research institutions, which contribute to
the industrialization effort by helping to, improve
iechnalogy and producilvity. © | "Bagi & ye

  

proved in this sector during 1978. This was 10'S per cent of
the Bank's total lending for the year and represented a
three-told increase over thie corresponding amount for
4977. Lénding to this sector at the end of 1978 amounted to
$350 million for 21 projects.

Thea substantial increase in activity in this sector in 1978
indicates the continuing availability of suitable projects for
Bank assistance, including several in Ines of industrial activity not previously financed by the Bank, It is also indicative of the differing sizes of industrial projects, con
sidering that the same number of projects.were financed in |

1977 tor a total arnouril of $42.6 million.

Five Industrial rasearch institutions in ihe Republic of
Korea will be the first of those engaged In applied reasearch
to be assisted by the Bank. Another research institute, alse
in the Republic of Korea, will have the distinction of being
the first institution engaged In geological mapping, praducfion of baseline dala and in the improvement of techniques
for locating, mining and processing of minerals, to be expanded and strengthened with a loan from the Bank.

  

where

f P ‘ak State, Wast Malaysia. The Project involves extraction of

tion to the Greater-ipoh Area.

  

balance and stimulate the automotive industry in that
country through technology transfers and intorlinkages
The second industrial loan project In Pakistan will help increase the local production of cement, a basic commodity

‘+ in housing and other construction of a developmental
- + flature. This provides an example of Impori-substltuling acfi weré ap: ~

tivity using domestic natural resources.

Development Banks: This sector recelved seven credit
lines from the Bank for a total amount of $157.5 million during 1978, compared with three credit lines amounting to $95
million in 1977, The level of lending to this sector in 1978
was the highest in the Bank’s history.

Since its inception, the Bank has approved 46 crodit lines
for a total amount of $842.1 million to 21 development
banks in 14 DMCs, representing 15.6 per cent of the Bank’s
lolat lending. In addition, DFls, especially those in the
South Pacific region, have heen provided with extensive
technical assistance grants.

During the year, the Korea Development Bank and the
Small and Medium Industry Bank of Korea received their
fifth cradit lines for $50 miltion and $40 million, raspectively. The Industrial Finance Corporation of Thailand received
its fourth credit line of $30 miilion, and the Barigladesh
Shilpa Bank its second credit line of $25 million, of which $4
million has been specitically earmarked for financing
small-scale industries. A notable tsature of the Bank's lend
iStill another firstis-the toap extended for an Automotive .
‘Components Manufacturing -Projéct:in Pakistan, to help .: ing In this sub-sector during the year was the Increased

level of operations in the South Pacific region. Three credit

‘fines were sanctioned to development banks in South
Paclfic DMCs, namely, the second credit line to the Papua
“New Guinea Development Bank ($7 million}, the third credit
“ling te ths Development Bank of Western Samoa ($4 million)
and ‘the first credit line 1o tte Tonga Development Bank
(St. § million).

“The recipient banks have used the proceeds of the cracit

lines'to finance Individual development projects in various
“sectors of thelr national economies, but the industrial sec_tor has been the main beneficlary, Such projects ranga
fram ihe financing of cash crop piantations and the construction of school buildings in some South Pacitic DMCs
to the settIng up of sophisticated, feasonably large-sized
ventures in other OMCs which have an adequate Industrial
‘pase for such projects,

‘The Bank's credit lines to DFls are playing an important
role in fostering economic growih by meeting the foreign
“currency costs of projects over a-wide range of both size
and sub-sectors, besides developing and strengthening
.DFIs Inthe countries concerned: “*
‘Power

Bank operations in the power sector are characterized by
emphasis on: {i) promoting the balanced devélopment of
the power sector $o.as.to ensure more efficient utilization
otéxisting capacities; and (it) development of new facilities
based on the use of indigenous energy resources. These
awin objestiyes..continued. to. Shane Jending, activities - fore
». thesyear 1978:..: ;

‘During the year, the Bank provided 9249, 2 million in eight
loans for.asven-powerprojects,, These: included major @xtensions to power transmission and distribution networks,
strengthening of the facilities of medium-sized systams
“Land development of How peneration: facilities: based: on
“available indigenous, energy. resourees;. .TWo, engralion

projects in Malaysia and Pakistani involyed 66- financing

with external donors, while a transmission line project in Fie
: formed a natiiral complement to a hydropower generation
“project financed by other donors. The year also saw the
‘reactivation. of financial, assistance’ provided g ihe power
sector In Viet.Nam-in-aarlies years.

* Besides these “(oan activities; significant” ‘technical
 Bggistance was provided duiritig thie Yaar, Urider a technical

Jassistance grant to Laos, a program for the electrification

~ -ofthe Vientlane Plain will be prepared. The electrification
Of rural areas is an essential part of that nation’s integrated
© development effort.
. A'technieal assistance ican of $1.38 million and a grant
‘of $160,000 approved for Thalland, in conjunction with a
“UNDP grant of $200,000 for the Kud Multipurpose Project,
- will enable the Governmeni to obtain consultant services
‘for the preparation of engineering studies, detailed designs
and tender documents for_an irrigation- cum-| hydropower
-broject. “

In addition. to the above ‘project-orianted technical
assistance, provision. was also made for technical
assistance in.varlous loan projects ty deal with problem
areas that were identitied with the help ot executing agen> Gies, For instance, along with the loan for a transmission
‘project, a technical assistance grant was provided to the .
Fiji Electricity Authority to enable it to Undartake studies of
its tariff tevel and structure.

 

    
 

 

The Importance of proper maintenance, training and institutional capability in achieving optimum efficiency In
project operations Is reflected in two loans which incorporate express provisions for training purposes: the loan
for a generation project in Pakistan provides for extensive
training of the executing agency personnel in the operation
and -malntenance of the project facilitias, while the
technical assistance granifloan to Thailand Includes a
component for the training of counterpart staff on aspects
of feasibtlity study and detailed designs.

“An itidicatdr of the region’s economic ‘growth is the fact
that tatal power generation in DMCs has been rising by
about 10 per cent per annum In the last decades, Notwithstanding this, the average per capita annual electricity
production is still low, at about 160 kilowatt hours (kWh),
and then only with the inclusion of some high-cansumption
msmber countries such as Singapore, Hong Kong and Republic of China, whose per capita production has neared or
exceeded 2,000 kWh, A serious problem in most countries
with low levels of power consumption is the poor condition
of the distribution networks, resulting In high energy
lusses. The Bank’s assistance, therefore, focuses-.considerable attention on improvement of these networks,

DRILLING for waier as part of the Bandung Water Supply
Project. The Project resulted from earlier Bank technical
assistance, fe oe ie :The energy crisis of the recent past occasioned a change
in amphasis towards the development of indigenous
sources of power generation, This trend is reflected in the
fact that about 90 per cent of the Bank's loans for power
generation made in the period 1976-1976 has been for the
development of power based on domestic fuel and
hydropower resources,

Power prolects generally.are capital intansive. This is fur
ther enhanced by.the accent on development of generation
based on indigenous energy resources. In lis 12 years of

 

this sector. While this level of assistance, accounting for
about 23 per cent of total Bank landing, may be corisidered
sizeable, future investment requirements In pawer projects
among DMCs indicate that an enormous task still lies
ahead in this key sector,

Transport and Communications

Considering that transport and communications play an
important role in the process of economic. develppmient, {he
Bank has provided sustained suppori to this sector trom

“lhe very first yéar of its landing activities.

By ihe end of 1978, $04 i. 8 million or 17.4 per cent of the
Bank’s cumulative lending had been provided to the

transport and communications sector Involving 68 projects.
atechnicat. ansiaianst. tor 39. projects amounted to abdut 7

. aperations, the dank has lent $1,244 million in 81 loans to”

op wel py: 24, 4 per cent.for ports, 10 per cent’ <
percent, (oF railways and 1.6 per cent for

 

   
 

of principal ports. Following substantlal Improvements to
these facilities in mosl DMCs in recent years, the Bank's
emphasis has been Increasingly oriented towards improvement of secondary and feeder roads as well as smaller
ports, the main aim being to provide dependable low-cost
fabilitles, particularly in rural and underdeveloped areas of
the countries concerned. Improvement of feeder and farmto-market roads 1s also generally included tn Bank- financed
integrated rural devalopment projecis, On a Jelatively
smaller scale, the Bank has also financed the improvement
of fallwajPand airport tacllities:

(n 1978, seven loans totalling $198.1 million were approved — three for road projects, two for airports and two
tor port projects.

The toans for road projects, one each in the Philippines,
indonesia and Thailand, amounted to $98 million involving,
in total, the improvement of about 1,440 kilometers of
roads. The project in Indonesia Is expected tc influence the
socio-economic conditions of about slx million people,
while those tn Thailand and the Philippines would help im
prove roads in-tural areas serving an-estimated-populalion ..... 
of. 770,000: in total. These projects wilt benefit the lo¢al

‘ populations through increased accessibility to markets

and farm inputs, thereby facilitating realization of the full
development potentlal of ihe areas served,

Of the two alrport loans totalling $12.3 million, the one to
Indwnesia is for tochnigal assistance to: prepare fedsibitity

: stidies and master plans. fot. seven.: “domestic « airports, .
Se spread actoss: the archipglagd; plus: aetalleg ehigingering
Th

financed ‘project, the: run.
are being, ingproved. f

 

TTATION Work i8 cing ealied out on the 474-kllometer Phitippine! Nationat Raitivayss eat bingy belween Manila

and Legaspi, under a Project that will ensure faster travel links with the southern peninsula of Luzon.

 

 

i
*

   

 

ASRSLoans for the two port projects, one in Indonesia and the
other In Thalland, amounted to $27.8 million. The main objective of the Bank in thls fleld has been to enable ports in
‘DMCs to cater more effactivaly to the development necds

6f the countries concerned, and to handle an increasing 
Yyolume of general cargo traffic, ~

. -The loan to Indonesia was for the expansion of Belawan
‘ort, and the other to Thailand was to provide technicat
gs!siance for the master planning and detalied design. of
improvements to Songkhla and Phuket.Ports, These poris
all cater to both domestic and international ‘shipping.

Water Supply

“Four loans totalling $94.1 million were approved for the
‘water supply sector in 1978, which accounted for 8.1 par
‘sent of total loans approved in the year. These loans wore
“extended to Papua New Guinea, Philippines, Malaysia and
‘Burma.

Total Bank lending for water supply projects to the end of
978 had reached $512.5 million, covering 29 projects in 12
<countries. The Bank continues to regard its offort in thls
ector as a high-priority activity, because of the contribuion which improved water supply and sanitation systems
ake to the socio-economic well-belng of people, as well
to their industrial advance.

“The water and sewerage systems of the larger cities in

 

fadive drift to the towns of population from the coun
side, an especially visible demographic, phenomenon of

rand sewerage problems in.most DMCs,
@ need for integrated plans in water
ms js reflected in the Bank's lendlh
fajects In thls sector includes “intake ‘Wotks

fants and transmission and distribution facilities, in addlin.to. catchment development works, Many of the projects
ccompanies by master-plan studies, financed by the
kor from other sources, which point the way to future
walopments. The Bank seeks to ensure that the projects it
neces are not only at least cost, but also specifically in:

 

 

good engineering practice.

mproving the well-being of poorer people among the urban
Populations in its DMCs. An outstanding foature of some
rojacts, such as the water supply works in Manila , BanFg (indonesia) and Hyderabad (Pakistan), is the provision
public standpipes, to serve large numbers of residents of
the poarer districts, who hitherto had no convenient or, inaad; safe source of-water supply.

an Development
@ -cities of DMCs now accommodate almost oneter.of their total population. At tha same time, the ur1 population is increasing at a much faster rate than the
Stal population in most DMCs. It has been estimated that
erate: of Increase tn the population living in slums and
‘Squattér areas is higher than that of the clty population,
Causing a steady deterioratiun of the environment and livconditions inside those urban areas.

 

je developing countries of Asia have deterloraied ine
ent decades. This is because maintenance has lagged,

‘more and more consumers have made damands on the: °
ystems at a faster rate than they could bé expanded. The’

 

Gent times, has greatly added 10 the.dimensions:of the

  
 
    

” ahd consultant service

 

pd ate appropriate technology-in design.and-construcs:: 
1¢ Bank’s projects have given special consideration to”

in an effort to deal with this massive problem, the governments of most DMCs fave undertaken urban development
planning. However, much remains to be accomplished In
resource mobilization, urban land management and controt

and institutional arrangements, In the past, Bank opera- 
tions were. concentrated mainly in areas of water supply,
sewerage. and waste disposal. Lending operations of a
more integrated nature started in 1976 with the approval of
the Bandung Urban Development, and Sanitation Project,
followed.in 1977 by the Sha Tin Urban Development Project
in- Hong-Kong.

The Trengganu Tengah Township Development Project in
Malaysia, approved during 1978, forms part of the ongoing
Trengganu Tengah Regional Developmeni Scheme, |n
which Bank participation started with the financing of
another major infrastructure requirement, the JerangauJabor Development Road. The new Township Project includes town development work (site formation, roads,
drainage, water reticulation and sewerage) and regional
water supply and housing for low-lncame groups (together
with commercial buildings) for five new towns in the area.

Education

Lending far education projects totalled $30 million during the year, bringing cumulative lending to this sector to
$77.8 millon. Two loans and two technical assistance
grants Were approved'in1978, A study of the Bank’s educa

’ tonal projects io. date shows, a steady broadening i in scope.
-.Whereas Bank loans. at first, were confined to vocational

nd-téchnical“education, progress has also been made in
other secondary and higher levels of education. Increasing
ly, activities have also been located Jn the provincial

regiohs ‘Of metnber gountrie
The Banglavesh ‘Education: i Equigment Development
Projéet will establisti cilities for the dasign and prototype

 

“manititaeture’ of ‘pr production batches of educational,
“équiprnent ‘which at present “has to be. imported” front
abroad. This loan, trom Special Funds resources, follows

technical assistance provided by the Bank in 1977,

The Senior Technical Schools Project in Indonesia will
help improve technica manpower by upgrading the quallty
of 17 technical schools, widely dispersed throughout the
country, by: the supply of needad equipment, construction
, CAn important aspect of the Project
is ‘the éstablishment ‘of a resoureé center for teachers”

 

“technical training at Medan and the provision, for the first

time in a Bank education project, of fellowships and training seminars to improve teacher trainers and their administrative staff,

The Bank has provided technical assistance for a project
preparation study of the various faculties in the University
of Norih Sumatra, at Medan, which occupies a prominent
place as a regional institution of higher loarning. Consultants to be provided will reviaw the Universify.s*current
curricula, and advise on teaching methods, bo: si
and laboratory facilities. They will also plan space requirements and recommend appropriate science equipment and laboratory facilities. A technical assistance grant
was also made to cover the foreign exchange cost of a
study of vocational education needs in Afghanistan, to examine the establishment of secondary-level vocational
schools in seven major provincial centers «and the
upgrading of the Vocational Teacher Education Department at Kabul University.

   
  

 

33Lisnow’ being

 

 

‘Although not
forts ‘in the educational flald over the past decade has
taken the form of training programs included as built-in
ious: Joan, and technical assistance projects.

veneficiarles,

Health

The Bank, in the past, did not finance health projects as
such, although some of the area development projects included provision for health clinics in rural areas. Having
regard to the importance of health and particularly famliy
planning in eeonomle and social development, tho Bank
“tant field PEL AIREY contacts were made in 1978 ith
some DMCs with a view to developing projects that would
be suitable for Bank assistance. The Bank expects per
ticularly to be abla-to’ assist selected countries In promoting health delivery services with family planning as an
integral part.

Two hospital-polyclinic projects were approved by the
Bank In 1978, namely, the Sha Tin Hospital-Polyclinic in
Hong Kong, and the Kent Ridge Hospital-Potyclinic in

“ to, loan adm

<Galyiges Office wee had beer a.unit in the fotiner Pro-*

sion activities Se

Gategdiized as alich’ much of the Bani’s ef- °

Singapore. These projects are designed lo provide
specialist and out-patient hospital facilities as well as
leaching facilities for medical schools associated with the
hospitals.

Loan Administration

The increasing number of Bank loans and the growing
complexity of the projects being financed have required
greater emp nd the adoption of new approaches

ALON WSFC The progress of individual pro

jects has been closaly monitored, and special attention has
been paid to delayed and problem projects. in all, 136
review missions were sent to the field during the year to
assess the physical prograss of projacts, identify problems
or dilficullies thal have emerged, and help work aut appropriate rarnedial measures. ‘

The progress made in the awarding of contracts and the 2
withdrawal of loan proceeds was also kapt under constant 4
review. A number of disbursament missions have visited
several borrowing member countries to help expedite pros
curement and disbursenjetits @ Girtheir parte->

The rearganization of ‘the Bank in August 1978 resulted in
the adoption of measures specifically intended to
strengthen loan administration. First, the Central Projects’

 
   
 

 
  
 
 
   
 
  
    
     
 
  
   
   
  
  

 

ie charged,
ing, reviewing:

loan administration:
baen issued to staft a é of
revised set of loan. administration instructions is: nda?
preparation.

The domestic procurement policy adopied by the Bankin
January 1976 is being reviewed.- “The Preparation of.Praject» Completion Reports; which! was: ri :
selective basis, has bean made a.raquiremerit' for ali corn
‘pleted projects. These reports will provide"the Dank with’
“comprehensive agsessinent of How projéets have been int:
plemented and the lessons that:can be learned front past, ©
experience, .

‘To improve the loan administration capabilities of the
staff of executing agencies, particularly in the fields of procurement and disbursements, seminars were held in

 

 

‘Bangladesh and Thailand in 1978 under the jojnt spensor- :
ship of the concerned governments and the Bank. ; s

A total of 218 loans were under implementation in 1978, :
wiih 48 loans becoming effective during -the year. ‘i
Disbursements were completed on 39 loans, ralsing the 3

total numbar of closed loans to 120 since 1971. Contracts
awarded during the year amounted ta $848.4 million, while
disbursements came to $462.2 million; these figures compare with $349 million and $356.2 rniltior, respectively, in
1977. The percentages of cumulative amounts of contracts
awarded, and disbursements relative to the total amount of i
effective loaris, as of the end of 1978 were 56 per cent and i
46 per cent, raspectively, as compared with 53 per cent and 3
44 per cont, respectively, in 1977,CONTRACTS AWARDED AND DISBURSEMENTS
TO END OF 1978

$ Million
5000

3500

3000

 

?500

2000

1500

1006

 

 

ods.and services required for Bank-assisied proj
imestly. procured through internatlonal competitive bi

es
Mong member countries, The Bank took two impor: 
fens: during 1978 for disseminating information

 

  

    

  

. coverage, and jn regagn lon:
* “thé postevaluation aclivities
“dépendent Poat-Evaluation Office
-° During the: yeanthe:Bank. ompleted two intensive inter

business opportunities associated with its lending and
technical assistance activities.

First, it launched in October a new monthly publication
entltled “Operational information on Proposed Prajecis”,

available worldwide on a subscription basis. In addition to

brief descriptions of the projects under consideration by
the Bank. for financial and technical assistance, this
publication carrles details of executing agencies,

estimates of possible loan amounis, consultancy services

which may be neaded and the status of proposed projects.

Second, the Bank-made. arrangements for the Business
Edition cf Development Forum, a periodical published by
the Genter for Econorntc and Social information of the
United Natlons, to publish twice a month procurement
notices for bidding opportunities on development projects
assisted by the Bank, The Business Edition of Development
Forum, also available on subscription, carries three kinds
of notices: (1) Advance Information listing proposed projects which are in the early stages of loan processing; {2}
General Procurement Notices providing information about
projects approved or under consideration by the Bank, to
appear a fow.months before the first tender or prequalification documents are circulated; and (3) Individual Notices
providing details of specific, contracts which are ready for
international bidding. :

tis hoped that the information dissaminated through
tnese publications will be particularly. useful to prospective

‘2 * suppliers, edntraéters, consultants and co-financiers.

   
      

f, the expanding. scope. of .post-evaluation
@ importance attached to
e,Bank, a separate ins established in 1978.

 

In view ,

  
  

Lua

 

sh rtproject and theother on a power project. Three other intensive internal
studies covering a further port projecl, a road project and a
development bank loan were substantially completed. Jn
addttion, work proceeded on four other projects belng postevaluated by groups of outside ‘experts: Involved were two
“loans for flsheries development, a pawer project and a
development bank loan. These studies were substantlally
completed.
Post-evaluation of completed projects is becoming an integral part of the-Bank's operations. Started in 1974 as an

” exercise involving’a’few projects, It Is now envisaged that |

eventually about 59 per cent of all completed projects will
be subjected to posl-evatuation. This extended coverage
will in most cases take the form of coricise Project Performance Audits highlighting major Issues. Thay will be based
on comprehensive Project Completion Reports to be
propared by the relevant Projects Departments.

A limtted number ot projects will continue te receive intensive internal review. This will be undertaken by staff in
the Post-Evaluation Office with the assistance of shortterm outside consultants, if necessary. it is also propos: ed
inal, as in the past, intensive ‘posts ~evaluation of selected
projects will be conducted by fully independent outside
evaluating agencies.

TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE BY COUNTRY AND REGIONAL ACTIVITIES TO END OF 1978"

{amounts in$ thousand)

 

   

 

 

Technical Assistance and
Regional Activities

Technical Assistance
* Provision of technical assistance, especially for improv.
ing the capability of DMCs to make more effective use of
external assistance both from the Bank and from other
sources, is an important aspect of the Barik's developmental role. Technical assistance grants are*flnanced mainly
from the Technical Assistance Special Fund, established in
1968, to which both developed and developing member
countries of the Bank contribute, and which also receives
net income trom tha Bank’s ordinary capital resources from
time to time. in addition, the Bank administers technical
assistance projects financed from other sources such as
UNDP. and EEC. It also cooperates with FAO on a cost
sharing basis in providing project preparatory technical
assistance In the agricultural sector.

Apart from the preparation of projects, technical

assistance activities are also directed towards Implemen
ting development projects, and improving the technical,
managerial and organizatlonal capabilities of DMGs; as

 

   
  

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

gs . 5 Bank Other
Country 6 0 Ter foe Financing Sources
Afghanistan 92.0 _
Bangladash 813.0 370.0
“Burma. 3. » 589.0 215.0
Cambodia ~~ ~ —
China, Republic of — _ wx
Cook Islands 1 91.0
Fiji. 1 92.0 _
Gllbart Islands =. _ Indonesia . 5 701.0 100.0
Korea, Republic of « fos area eds cnn inom » 401.0 _
Lao People’s’ Demootat Hep. “4 * 74.0 ~
Malaysia. a 150.0 : —
Nepal °$ 4157 750.6
Pakistan 2 300.0 ~
Papua New Guinea 2 149.0 =
Philippines 3 200.0 200.0
’ Singapore _ - _
Solomon Islands |. 1 50.0 =—
Sri Lanka ~ 2 190.0 350.0
Thailand 3 447.5 146.0
an] Tonga : _ - _
| |] Viet Nain x - —
A) it Western Samoa 2 223.0 _
Nh _ SubTotal 5,028.2 2,131.0
y 4 Regional 908.8 Hl 7 ~ ——
4 ‘ ; TOTAL 5,937.0 2,134.0
Ay i _ ae
/ ‘| | Excluding technic: shslaner loans.
|
i; :
36 i
if i
ale :well as to establish and strengthen the various develop‘ment institutions in those countries, and to assist in the

_ formulation of national and/or sectoral development
-strategies and plans.

‘The Bank's technical assistance activities expanded
‘significantly in 1978, both in terms of number of projects
-and the total amount of assistance provided.

Forty-seven projects amounting to $11. 1? million ware
approved during the year, compared to 42 projects amoun
ting to $7.2 million in 1977, Eight projects were wholly o¢
partly financed from other sources in 1978, with the Bank
acting as Executing Agency; four projects received

“assistance totalling $1.7 million from UNDP and four pro
jects recelved assistance of $3.3 million from EEC.
‘Project preparatory technical assistance amounted to

“$8.4 million for 34 projects; advisory and operational
_tachnical assistance amounted to $2.7 million for 13 pro
jects. These amounts include technical assistance graitt

scomponents incorporated in many Bank loans, totalling
$6:5 million in all, of which $4.5 mlilion was for project

preparatory purposes and $2 million far project impiementation,
On a grant basis; technical assistance loans are excluded.

  

In 1978, 18 DMCs received technical assistance. The fully
eligible Special Funds countries received $4.7 million for 26
projects, compared with $4.5 millon for 24 projects to them
in 1977. Technical assistance grants provided to South
Pacific DMCs in 1978 amounted to $735,700" for seven projects (two project preparatory and five advisory), compared
io $605,000 for seven projects in 1977.

On a sectoral basis, 61.2 per cent of the tolai ammount of
technical assistance approved in 1978 was for agriculture
and agro-Industry projects, compared to 55.4 per cent in
1977. Technical ‘assistance to‘ this sector Involved’ irrigation, rural and area development, livestock services, agroprocessing, fisheries and forestry. About 13 per cent of
technical assislance was provided to the industry sector, 9
per cant went to the water supply sector, 5.4 per cent to
transport and communications, 3 per cent to the education
sector, 2.5 per cent to the power sector anc the rest to
hational development banks and, other activities.

Twenly-one loans approved in 1978 resulted from eanier
tachnical assistance provided by the Bank. The total
amount of such carlier technical assistance was $8.7

1 Including supplementary tochnical assistanoe for the Lungye
Hydropower.Projecl, Soloman Islands.

    

37|
i
:
i
|

 

TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE APPROVALS IN 1978!
{amounts in $ thousand)

 

 
 
    
 
 

Bali Irrigation {Phase iH

Belawan Port Study (Phase |}}., ;

Teluk Lada Area Development (Phase. hy
Sumatra Fisherles Development

. Livestock Development
University of North Sumatra
Semarang Groundwater Investig ; ee . .
Development . . 210.0 
 

Project Advisory: and
Ve :
i Sona Protect Preparatory Operational
i AFGHANISTAN, DEMOCRATIC. REPUBLIC OF : . . wo
} Vocational Education “ ‘ 97.2 | Seraj Agricultural Development 450.0 ~
1
i BANGLADESH
i Livestock Services and Development Training (Part A) s _ 200.0
H Livestock Services and Development Tralning (Part B) 150.0 —
District Towns Water Supply ’ 580.0? ~
! Pilot Plants Processes Develapment Canter 99.0 —
\ Study on Development of Man-Made Fibor Industry ° 490.0 Study on Development of Pharmaceutical Industries 99.0 Pabna Irrigation (Phase Il), . 160.0 , =
, BURMA
H Second Rice Processing Industries 95.0 _
i) Rangoon Watar Supply . 142.0 "Flu wg
! Electricity Authority Tariff Study . = 70,0
I ke INDONESIA

   

i, Domestic Airports 180.0 i Southeast Sulawes! Transmigration and Area
Development oe, . oO _ 2,370.0 _
cil es KOREA, REPUBLIC OF voce ones
aby . Applied Research Institutes 2.020) 0 we 860.00"
| i incheon Port {Phase Il) 150.0 la Study on Small-Scale Industries _ 97.0
i ‘
LAG PEOPLE'S DEMOCRATIC REPUBLIC
1 Forestry Development _ 395.04
2 Vientiane Plain Rural Electrification 140.0 | MALAYSIA
5 Kermusin-Semerak Integrated Rural Development 350.0 _
i

 

, '

| | 3g i
! a
|ted RuraliDevelopment Development’.

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

3940

TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE APPROVALS BY SECTOR TO END OF 1978!

(amounts in $ ihousand)

 

 

 

1977 1978 1987-1978
" SeeHoe No. Amount % No. Amount Yo No. Amount %
Agriculture and Agro-Industry 22 (3,988.2 56.4 24 6783.2 61.2 129 23,7284 508
Agriculture 20 3,526.2 49,2 20 6,007.2 54.2 WW 21,236.27 45.5
Agro-Indusiry 2 442.9 6.2 4 776.0 7.0 48 2,492.2 5.3
Industry 2 512.0 02: 6 1,461.6 13.2 43 2,282.9 49
Development Banks 2 380.0 5.3 2 185.0 1.7 23 2,812.6 6.0
Power 5 740.0 10.3 2 275,79 2.5 27 4,780.2 10.3
Transport and
Communications 6 692.0 3.7 4 600.0 5.4 39 6,699.8 14.4
Water Supply 2 239.0 3.3 4 1,002.0 9.0 7 3,737.5 8.0
Urban Development _ oo, ~ ~ — 1 400.0 0.2
Education 4 628.0 88 2 343.2 3.4 9 1,253.2 27
Health . . - - —. _ — — _ om —
Others ws ss — 3 431.0 3.9 9 1281787
TOTAL 42 7,189.2 100.0 47 14,081.7 100.0 267 46,676.3 100.0

1 €xcluding regional technical assislance projects and technical assisiance loans.

2 Cumulative total adjusted to tnciude additional UNDP financing for the Bangladesh Jule Seed Projeal amounting la $154,843.
3 Includes supplementary financing for the Lungga Hydropower Projecl (Solomon Islands} amounting to $65,717.

TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE APPROVALS IN 1978
FUNDED FROM OTHER SOURCES
{amounts in $ thousand)

 

 

No. of
Agency Projects Amount
European Econamic
Community (EEC) 4 3,260
United Nations Development
Programme (UNDP) 4 1,686!
TOTAL 8

4,945

+ In addition, UNDP provided aadilional financing amounting to $154,943
for the Jute Seed Project, Bangladesh, which was spprovad by the Bank
In 1976.

million (including $0.9 milllon financed from other sources
such as EEC and UNDP), of which $3.6 million was provided
on a grant basis and $5.1 millton has been Incorporated in
the resulting loans. The iotal amount of loans approved by
the Bank for these projects in 1978 was $440 million; in addition, these projecis received co-financing amounting to
$239 million. Gumulatively, by the and of 1878, 142 loans
iotalling $1,721 million had resulted from technical
assistance provided by the Bank, cosling $22.4 million in
all, :
A ictal of 27 technical assistance projects were completed in 1978, 20 for project preparation and 7 for advisory
and operational purposes, bringing the total number of
technical assistance projects completed to 171.

The total amount of technical assistance grants provided
to DMCs as at'the end of 1978 stood at $46.7 million’ {see
table above).

+ Including projects iinanced [rom sources outside the Bank, niaindy NDP,
Heglonal aclivities and technical assistance loans are excludad.

 

   

  

  

farmer ieee EatsSSISTANCE LEADING TO" PROJECT: FOARB | iN 1978 :

rears ‘of A. ‘Armount.

 

 

 

4442

Regional Activities

As part of the Follow-up Activities on the Findings of the
Second Asian Agcicultural Survey (AAS II), two sub-regional
seminars, to analyze and discuss the implications of the
Survoy, were held early in the year with senior policymakers from DMCs participating.

The first of these held in Manila and Los Bafios during
9-13 January In cooperation with Ihe University of the
Philippines at Los Bafos, the Southeast Asian Regional
Center for Graduate Study and Research In Agriculture and
the Intornational Rice Research Institute, was intended
primarily for DMCs in the Southeast and Easl Asian subreglons.

The second seminar, hald in Dacca and Comilla during
23-27 January, in cooperation with the Goverament of
Bangladesh and the Bangladesh Academy for Rural

_ Development, was mainly for countries in the South Asian

sub-ragion.

The main topics considered in both seminars were:

{i} the AAS-II report;

(i) planning considerations, both at the macro-level
over a whola aconomy and at aroa and sector levels,
which would help to formulate strategies for agricultural
and rural development in future;

(iii) certain key components Jn these strategles — for
example, agricultural technology improvement, rural
employment creation, institutional reform and rural
development administration (with particular reference
to agricultural support systems);

(iv) future Bank gollcy on agricultural and rural development assistance; and

(v) special subjects which reflected the expertise and
the facilities on hand at the two seminar locations.
These were the role of agricultural research In
agricultural development, at the Manila/Los Bajos
seminar, and how to induce change at the village level
through the formation of self-help groups, at the Dacca/Comilla seminar.

The Sacond Asian Agricultural Survey fas been published by Praeger Special Studies and was rcleased for
public sale on 1 February 1978, under the title of Rural Asia:
Challenge and Opportunity. Great Interest In this publica
tion was evinced by institutions and the media around the
world, and the findings of the Survey have been widely
disseminated.

The Bank approved a grant of $90,000 to help finance a
10-day Regional Seminar on the Applicaiion of Appropriate
Technology in Forestry and Forest Industries, The Seminar
— to be Jointly financed by the Bank and the Finnish
Department for International Develdpment Couperaticn,
organized by the Bank and the {nternational Labour
Organisation and set for January 1979 — will bring together
senior forestry officials from DMCs for workshops in
Manila and field trips lo forestry plantations, logging sites
and processing facllities on the southern Philippine island
of Mindanas, The officials, responsible for fores| management, Ioqging and wood processing, will! examine and
discuss a variety of technical, economic, managerial and
institutonal considerations relating to the use of appropriate technology in lhe forestry sector, which’ plays
such an important role in the economies of many Asian
countries and in the reglonal economy as a whiole.

A grant of $257,000 was approved for the carrying out of
an agricultural survey In the Bank’s seven DMCs in the

REGIONAL ACTIVITIES IN 1978

 

Amount
{$ thousand)

Research on Traditional Socio-Cultural
Systems and Modern Economic
Growth in Developing Countries in
Asia and the Pacific 50.0
ADB Regional! Seminar on Appropriate
Technology/Small-scala Industries

Development . 55.0
ESCAP-ADB-SPEC industrial Survey of
the South Pacific 80.0

Regional Seminar en the Application of

Appropriate Technology in Forestry

and Forest Industrles 90.0
Asian Productivity Organization's Ninth

Project Feasibility Study Training

Gourse (Contribution) 38.8
Subsidy for Business Edition of

Development Forum 35.0
Development Sank Staff Training at ADB

Headquarters s 34.0
South Pacific Agricultural Survey 257.0
Regional Seminar on Irfigation

Development and Management 95.0
ADB-DSE Regional Program for Project

Implementation and Supervision. 45.0
Regional Seminars on Procurement‘and = +"

Project Management... . . 97.0

 

South Pacific (the South Pacitic Agricultural Survey). These
countries were nol covered in AAS-Il conducted by the
Bank in 1976 beacause, tn the opinion of the AAS-I! Task
Forve, lhe special features and distinct development needs
of the South Pacitic DMCs warrantad a separate
agricultural survey by axperts familiar with the sub-region.

The Survey will be concerned with agriculture (both nonmarket subsistence and commercial}, forestry and fishing
(both marine and inland). The aim of the Survey wil) bs to
identify the most promising areas for investment in the
rural economies of South Pacific countries during the next
five to ten years, To be conducted in the first halt of 1979,
the Survey will be undertaken by a tear o! experts under
the guidance of an Advisory Group, comprising persons
who have an intimate knowledge of the South Pacific. The
initial meeting of the Advisory Group Look place in October.

The Bank agreed to conduct a three-week Regional
Seminar on Irrigation Development and Management In
Manila in January-February 1979, and an amount of $96,000
was provided for this purpose. The Seminar is designed to
discuss policy and technical issues of current concern and
to compile a report entitled “Review of Irrigation Development in ADB’s First Decade”.

The three main topics to be discussed would be (i) institutional and organizational aspects of irrigation development
and management, including agricultural supporting ser-vices; (Il) cost effectiveness and socio-economic benefits,

with special reference ta low-cost techniques, labor-'

intensive methods, income distribution aspects and the
need for an integrated approach; and (iif) profect Implementation and loan administration, including mobilization of
local goods and services, training and the use of appropriate tachnalogy.

A Regional Seminar on Appropriate Technology/SmailScale Industries Development for senior officials of concerned development finance institutions and government
ministries in Asia was held at the Bank's Headquarters
from 10 to 15 July, with technical support from the Office of
International Programs of the Georgia Institute of
Technology, Atlanta. An amount of $55,000 was provided by
the Bank for the Seminar ‘

The Seminar was attended by 20 participants, 12 trom
DFis and eight from government departments or agencies
concerned with small-scale industry development, from 10
countries. The immediate objectives of the Seminar were to
underline the significance and importance of small-scale
industry development, tha need for and the desirability of
adopting appropriate technolagy in this context, as well as
to emphasize the institutional framework — both internal
and external — that must exist and the policy anvironment
that must prevail if small-scale industry development is to
make the desired haadway in the respective countries. For
the longer term, the Seminar aimed at increasing the flow
oi DFI assistance to small-scale industries, and facilitating
the Bank’s efforts in evolving innovativa approaches to
help promote small-scale industries in its DMCs in future.

The Bank launched In September, on an experimental
basis, an On-the-Job Training Program ai the Headquarters, in the fields of appralsal, Implementation and
supervision of projects for four professional senior staff
from selected DFis in the Asian and Pacific region. The
training, in each case, will be of three months duration and
not more than one DF! officla! at a time will be invited for
training.

The training aims malniy at familiarizing officials of
Bank-assisted DFIls with the methods of appraisal and
supervision applied by the Bank in its evaluation of a DFI’s
activities, Also, it will provide information regarding the
Bank's principles, requirements and procedures In the field
of appraisal and administration of Bank eredit lines to DFIs
generally.

\t is expected that the knowledge so acquirad wii! be
disserninated by the officials involved among their calleagues on return to their respective institutions. The Bank
approved an amount of $34,000 for thls Program.

An officer from the Industrial Development Bank of
Pakistan trained under this Program from 17 September to
15 December 1978, and three officers from three other
selected DFis will train in 1979, After reviow of the training
program and assessment of its benefits to both ihe instltutions concerned and the Bank, the program may be extended to other DFls on a selective basis in future.

A Ragional Program on Project Implemeniatian and
Supervision, designed for senior offtclals of DFls in Asia,
was held at the Bank's Headquarters from 4 to 21
December, in collaboration with the German Foundation

FURNACE of a steel! plant in Singapore, assisted by a Bank subican through the Development Bank of Singapore,for International Development. Twenty participants from as
many industrial DFls In 17 countries attended the Program.

Ths Program covered the various siages of supervision
— loan effectiveness and the three specific stages of Implementation, completion and subsequant operation —
with particular attention to the problems faced at each of
these stages and possible ways to overcome them. Emphasis was also given to the recognition of early warning
signals, in order to detect and anticipate problems and introduce corrective measures before such problems overwhelm the projects.

The Program also addressed itself to problem projects
and their rehabilitation, as well as to the adoption of more
comprehensive project monitoring systems, which could include the socio-economic aspects as well, so as to adequately assess the overall development impact of DFls’
operations. The Bank provided an amount of $49,000 for the
Program.

A technical assistance grant of $38,800 was extended by
the Bank to the Asian Produclivity Organization for the
Ninth Project Feasibility Study Training Course, to be held

MODERN highway connecting Kuala Lumpur and Karak in
Peninsular Mataysia, which has cut travelling time between
the country’s East Coast and the capital city.

 

tn early 1979 in the Philippines and Japan. This was the
saventh such grant by the Bank to the APO for this purpose.

A pioneering study on Traditional Socio-Cultural
Systems and Modern Ecanomic Growth in the developing
countries of the region was the subject of a $50,000 grant
by the Bank, for the first phase of research into the inter
action betweon traditional and modern technologies and
institutions. Supperted by Bank staff, four internationallyknown consultants are involved in the study ~ Professors
Kazushi Ohkawa, Henry Rosovsky, Mohammed Ansorl
Nawaw! and Yogendra Singh

This first phase wil! comprise the preparation ofa
bibliography of the avallable literature on the subject, a
basic data resources survey and a detalled research proposal for future work in this field. In its Joan and technical
assistance activities, the Bank has always endeavored to
take into account ine interplay of newer and older ways,
but fts efforts to do so have been constrained by inadequate research and lack of Information on social structures
and the economic relationships between people in its
DMCs. The aim of the study, therefore, is to help the Bank
identlfy ways in which it can promote positive interactions,
to render its operations more effective, and to formulate
more relevant development strategies in the countries concerned.

Tne consultants met at the Bank's Headquarters in
December to review progress on the study, Their initial
report is due early in 1979,

Atectinical assistance grant of $80,000 has also been ap
- proved for an industrial Survey of the South Pacific, to be

carried out by the Economic and Soclai Commission foi
Asia and the Pacific in cooperation with the Bank and the
South Pacifle Bureau for Economic Cooperation, The main
objectives are to assess the human and natural resources
ot this sub-region, to, study !ts potential for industriallzation
and investment, and to identity opportunities io develop
and apply appropriate technologies. The Bank's grant is beIng used to finance the services of an economist teamleader and of an expert in small-scale Industry and appropriate technology.

Two Regional Seminars on Procurement and Project
Management are to be held early in 1979, for which $97,000
has been approved by the Bank. To be attended by staff
from executing agencies in DMGs, these seminars are
designed to provide participants with an understanding of
the Bank’s policies, practices and procedures regarding
procurement, and its concepts and methodolagies for implementing Bank-financed projects.

A sum of $35,000 was provided by tha Bank as a subsidy
for the Business Edition of Development Forum, a
perlodical published by the U.N. Center for Economic and
Social Information, In which procurement information
relating to Bank-assisted prajects was arranged to be
published on a regular basis (see page 35).

The second phase of construction of the Nam Ngum
Hydropower Project in the Lao Psople’s Democratic
Republic was succassfuly completed in late 1978 at a cost
of approximately $45 million. The Bank helped to mobilize
the required funds tor the Project. It also functioned as Administrator of the Second Nam Ngum Development Fund
and Coordinator for the execution of the Project. The contributors to this Fund were Australia, Canada, France,
Federal Ropublic of Germany, Indla, Japan, Netherlands,
New Zealand, Switzerland and United Kingdom. AdditionalPACKAGING milk at a dairy farm in Papua New Guinea. The Project was financed by a Bank subloan through the Papua New
Guinea Development Bank.

financing was obtained from contributer governments in
early 1976 to maet a substantial cost overrun on ihe Project.

Commercial operations of the new generating facilities
started in October, while the officlal inauguration of the
Project took place in early November. Apart from providing
Laos with sufficient generating capacily to meet the expected growth in internal demand far power tor a number of
years to come, the Project will enable the country to earn
substantial foreign exchange through the export of surplus
power 1o Thailand.

Lending and Operational! Policies

Program Lending

In February, the Bank decided that program loans may be
made to DMCs, in'spccial circumstances, in order to help
them to Increase the productive capacily in certain highpriority sectors or activities. Such circumstances include:

(a) the existence or imminent danger of considerahte
under-utilized capacily in lhe sector or activity con
cerned, owing to a shortage of foreign exchange to im
port essential equipment, components, spare parts and

taw materials;

(b) the abliity of the borrower to provide the necessary resources to maintain high output in the sector or
activity after a short period of Bank assistance;

(c) the presentation hy the borrower of a program
which provides a satisfactory basis for Bank assistance;
and

(cd) the absence of appropriate alternative sources
of finance for the purpose for which Bank assistance is
sought, .

It was also decided that program lending should initially
be limited to § per cent of the Bank’s anticipated overall annual lending and, for arty particular country, to 10 per cent
af anticipated annual lending to that country by the Bank.

Program loans may be made from eithes ordinary capital
resources or Special Funds, All of the terms and conditions
of Bank lending, as appropriate, will be applicable to program loans. Program lending guidelines will be reviewed
two years after the approval of the Bank's first program
loan. As reported on page 59, [he first such loan was made
to Bangladesh, in an amount of $8.9 million from Special
Funds during 1978.

Concessional Lending from the Asian
Development Fund

in August, the arrangements for lending from the Bank’s *

concessional rasourcas — the Asian Development Fund
(ADF) — were reviewed. The review confirmed the policy of
basing a DMC's access to ADF loans on country considerations, and particularly the use of per capita GNP and tha
country’s debi repayment capacity for this purpose. Borrowing OMCs were thus classified into three groups.

 

4546

Group A consists of DMCs that will have full access to
ADF loans, and Includes the least developed countries and
those most seriously affected by world aconomic
developments. DMCs Jn this group wili be given priority In
the allocation of ADF resources and will receive ai least 85
per cent of total allocations. Given the Ilmited availability
of ADF resources, ordinary loans tor certain Group A DMCs
may also be provided in oxceptional cases, having regard to
their repayment capacity and their development potential.

Group B consists of four OMCs {namely, Indonesia,
Papua New Guinea, Philippines, and Thailand) that will
have modest access to ADF loans, in that not more than 15
per cent of total ADF landing during the period 1979-1982
may be provided to them. Allocation of ADF resources
among DMGs in this group will take into account their
respective economic situations. Priority in the use of such
resources wi}l continue to be given to projects having a
high social and economic vaive but a retatively low finan:
ciai return or forelan exchange earning capacity. The rest
of the countties, comprising Group ©, will not have access
to the limited resources of ADF.

These arrangements for ADF lending will be effective until the end of 1980, in the latter part of which year a further
review will be undertaken,

Review of Bank Operations in the South Pacific

In December, the Bank's operational policies in relation
to South Pacific DMCs were reviewed and modified, with a
view to making tham more responsive to the specific needs

_ of these countries. It was decided thai, in meeting the re
quirements of South Pacific DMCs, the Bank would:

(a) consider lending to most South Paclfle DMCs
on concessional terms, implementing ilexidly the
general criteria set out for this purpose;

(b) basically help to develop the productive capabilities of South Pacific DMCs with priortty to fisheries
and forestry projects;

{c) support the main rural development thrust on the
basis of lass sophisticated approaches and technologies; and

id) pay particular regard to the respective size and
potential of the various South Pacific DMCs in order to
be able to assist diftarant countries in different ways.
Recognizing that the smaller South Pacific DMCs (as

wel) as Maldives) would usually have smaller projects, the
Bank is prepared to consider multi-project ioans for
“packages” of public sector projects in these countries,
which may be from more than one sector. A further review
of these policies relating to Bank operations in South
Pacific OMCs will be undertakan after three years.

Forestry Development

Forests play an important role in the region in the control
of siltation of rivers and reservoirs, the conservation of soll
and the maintenance of agriculiure, as well as in the provision of essential materlals. In August 19/8, Ihe Bank considered a paper on the role of forestry and forest industries
in the socio-economic development of the regian. It was
decided that future strategy for Bank involvement in this
field should relate to the rational utilization of existing
resources and the eslablishment of new production bases.

Much of the forest depletion in the region is the result of
population growth, coupled with stalic agricultural
technologies and inadequate land tenure systems. The

strategy for forestry development in future emphasizes
rural development and the integration of forestry with other
land uses; it also gives due attentlon to the development
arid improvement of relevant local institutions and stresses
the environmental role of trees and woodlands, It is
recognized that forestry provides a unique vehicle for
development in many DMCs.

Mineral Development

Most DMCs of the Bank are known lo have substantial
mineral resources which have yet to be thoroughly exploited, These resources could provide a source of much
needed foreign exchange earnings or savings, cither
through exports or Import substitution of such minerals.

The Bank decided during the year that It could perform a
useful role in assisting DMCs to iniensily their efforts to exploit their potential non-fuel mineral and coal resources by
providing: (i) technical assistance loans and grants for
surveys and economic evaluations of discovered mineral
reserves; and {il} “seed” capital financing tor the development of facilities for mining and beneficlation of minerals
and related infrastructural development.

It was considered that the Bank’s invoivement in activities related io peiroleum exploration, prospecting, production and marketing would not be appropriate. The oilproducing DMCs have been highly successful in attracting
foreign private capita) and expertise from trans-national oil

PROTOTYPES of educational equipment to be manutactured and evaluated in Bangladesh under a Bank Project.
Aimed at facilitating and. proimeting better teaching
methods, the Project resulted from an earlier technical
assistance grant.companies to help them develop their petroleum resources,
and such.cooperation could be expected to continue in the
future. However, Bank assistance for the rehabititation
and/er expansion of existing petroleum production
facilltias could be considered favorably, in the event that
financing for such projects Is not available trom other
sources on reasonable terms.

Special efforts will also be made by the Bank to develop
the institutional capability and facilities in DMCs for carrying out geological surveys and mineral exploration programs to halp to discover new reserves. The Bank js currantly making appropriate organizational and staffing arrangemenls io implement the decision to extend
assistance to DMCs tor the development of non-fuel
minerals and coal resources, and for projects involving the
rahabilitation and/or expansion of existing petroleum production facilities. The Bank will cooperate with other aid
agencies and with prospective investors to increase the
flow of capital and technical assistance to its DMCs for the
development of their mineral resources in future.

Policies under Review

A detailed review of the Guidelines on Uses of Consultants was completed during the year, Various recommended changes in the Guidelines, including the greater
use of consultants from DMs and jocal consuitants in
future, have been approved by the Board of Directors.
Revised: guidelines will accordingly be issued during 1979.

At the end of 1978, papers on a number of other policy
-}ssues — including Domestic Procurement, Local Currency
Financing, Go-Financing and a sector paper on Agriculture
and Rural! Development — had been circulated for consideration by the Board early in 1979.

Inter-Agency Cooperation

The Bank conlinued to mainiain close contacts with
other institutions interestad in the economic. daveaiopmant
‘of the Asian and Pacific region. institutional arrangements
for cooperation were concluded during the year with IFAD,
. Moreover, the cooperation with EEC and the OPEC Special
Fund was strengthened, leading to the implementatian of
arrangements for co-financing of various projects in certain
‘DMCs, A close working relationship continued with the
World Bank and UNDP, and also other international agen-6ies such as FAQ, WHO and ILO.

Regional Development Banks

The annual consultation mesting between the Presidents
of the African Development Bank, the Asian Development

Bank and the Inter-American Development Bank was held
“in Washington, D.C. in September. This meeting was also
attended by representatives of six other international institutions — lhe Arab Fund for Econemic and Social
Development, EEC, the European investment Bank, IFAD,
tha Islamic Development Bank and the OPEC Special Fund.
The World Bank was also represented. Views were exchanged on various financial and economic problems fac@0 by developing countries, and on operational aspects of
common interest to the institutions,

World Bank Group

The Bank and the World Bank continued to cooperate
closely through frequent visits of officials, exchanges of in
 

 

H ~ « i me
RICE Genetics Resources Laboratory a! the international

Rice Research tnstituie, Los Bafios, Philippines, one of the
agricu/tural research institutions supported by the Bank.

   

formation on operational activitics and the coordination of
their respective economic development activities in partlcular DMCs, The World Bank co-financed two projects
with the Bank, namely, the Second Maniia Water Supply
Project in the Philippines and the Second Power Transmission Project In Fiji, involving a total of $100.6 million.

The Bank was represented in an observer capacity at the
Annual Meetings of the IMF-World Baak Group in
Washington, D.C., in September. The World Bank was also
represented by observers at the Annual Meeting of the
Bank tield tn Vienna in April. The President of the Bank altended the maeting of the Development Committees of the
IMF-World Bank in Washington in September. In addition,
the Bank was represented at four other meetings of the
Development Committees held during the year. The Bank
also participated in the aid coordination meetings held during the year under the auspices of the World Bank for
Bangladesh, Burma, Republic of Korea, Nepal, Pakistan,
Philippines, Sri Lanka and Thailand.

International Fund for Agricultural
Development

Close cooperation and consultations between IFAD,
esiablished in 1977, and the Bank were maintained in 1978.
The Bank was represented at the sessions of the Preparatory Commission for (FAD, as well as its Governing Cauncil. The Bank also assisted |FAD In various ways during the
preparatory stages, including assistance by way of secondment of a staff member to the Preparatory Commission. A
draft Cooperation Agraement between IFAD and the Bank
was drawn up in 1977 and potentia! projects suitable for
carly [FAD financing were discussed.

Following the approval of the Cooperation Agreement
with IFAD by the Board of Governors of the Bank in April,
these co-financing arrangements have been implemented.
During 1978, |FAD provided a total of $55 million for three
Bank-financed projects .- the Kirindi Oya Irrigation Project
in Sri Lanka ($12 million), Ihe Pabna Irrigation and Rural
Development Project in Bangladash ($30 million) ane the Integrated Rural Development Project in Nepal ($13 milllon).

   

4748

OPEC Special Fund

Discusslons for cooperation by the Bank with the OPEC
Special Fund (OSF) were Initiated in April 1977. The OSF
operates with a minimum of administrative machinery and
a maximum of collaboration wiih existing ald institutions
both within and outside its mamber countries. Cooperation
between OSF and the Bank started with the provision oy
the former of financing for cost overruns incurred on a
number of Bank-financed projects.

in 1978, OSF co-financed five of the Bank's projects to
the extent of $32 mitlion — the Pyiamana integrated Sugar
Project in Burma ($6.5 million), the Second Tribhuvan International Airport Project ($5 million) and the Sagarnath
Forestry Project (3 million) in Nepal, the Tarbela Hydropower Project in Pakistan ($13 million) and the Laguna de
Bay Fish Pen Development Project in the Philippines ($4.5
million), In addition, the Bank prepared in 1976 a fisheries
project in Viet Nam for exclusive financing by a loan of $7
million from OSF; this project will be administered by the
Bank. The comparabie total for co-financing by OSF in 1977
was $12.7 million.

United Nations Development Programme |

The Bank continued its evoperation with UNDP In
assisting OMCs with technical assistance for project
preparation and advisory services. There were visits by
UNDP. officials to the Bank and also frequent consultations
and exchanges of information between UNDP ‘Headquarters and the Bank, In addition, Bank missions regularly
called on UNDP Resideni Representatives and staff In
OMGs to exchange views on varicus projects.

Tha Bank was represented at the meeting of the UNDP
Regional Bureau for Asia and the Pacific held at Colombo,
the 25th Session of the UNDP Governing Council held in
Geneva, and the meeting on Technical Coaperation Among
Developing Countries held in Argentina.

During the year, the Bank agreed to act as Executing
Agency in respect of four UNDP-financed technical
assistance projects involving a total of $1.7 million ~ the
District Towns Water Supply Project in Bangladesh
($230,000); the Applied Research Instltutes Project in the
Republic of Korea ($860,000), the Forestry and Forest Industry Project in the Lao People’s Democratic Republic
{$395,000}; and the Kud Multipurpose Project in Thailand
($200,000), Moreaver, UNDP provided additional financing
for the Jute Seed Project in Bangladesh ($154,943), which
was approved in 1976.

Food and Agriculture Organization

The Bank and the FAO cooporated in project preparatory
technical assistance for three further projects in 1978. This
brought the total to 12 since the Interim Arrangements for
Cooperative Action with FAO were established in 1968.
Discusslons on improving these cooperative arrangements
were held during the year, while the usual close contact
with FAO was also maintained in other areas

The three cooperative projects undertaken in 1978 involved a study of the fisheries sector in the Philippines and
the preparation of a feasibility report on integrated development of the industry in future; a study of the fisheries sector in Indonesia and the preparation of a feasibiljly study
on integrated fisheries development in Sumatra; and an indepth examination of rural credit in Sri Lanka.

European Economic Community

Cooperation batween EEC and the Bank began in 1976,
when EEC allocated a grant equivalant to $1.9 million to
finance Bank-execuled programs of technical assistance In
certain DMCs, Under the financing arrangement with EEC
approved by the Bank In December 1976, eight technical
assistance projects totalling $1.71 milllon have been
financed -by EEC on a grant basis. |

In 1977, EEC allocated in its ald budgat the equivalent of
$10 million for co-financing of five projects in selected
DMCs. Two of the Bank's projects involving EEC cofinancing totalling $5.6 million were approved in 1877 and
three projects involving EEC co-financing of $4.4 milllon
were approved [in 1978. In addition, EEC allocaled $0.45
million for technical assistance programs to be executed
by the Bank. EEC agreed to provide co-financing of three
more of the Bank's projects and the financing of various
technical assistance programs, totalling $12 million under
EEC’s aid budgat tor 1978.

Brandt Commission

The Brandt Commission (officially named the Independant Commission on international Development Issues)
was formed towards the end of 1977 to study some of the
serious problems confronting developing countries and the
existing institutional framewerk for internatlonai cooperation. In response to a request by the Commission in May,
ihe Bank made available to It the results of various studies
undertaken by the Bank and of its experience as a regional
development bank.

In the course of 1978, there were exchanges of views between staff members of the Bank and the Commission
Secretariat through visits and correspondence. In response
to an invilation fromm the Commission, the Prasident of the
Bank attended, in his personal capacity, the meeting of the
Commission held in Kuaia Lumpur during November and
presented his views on regional economic cooperation.

World Food Council

The Fourth Session of the World Food Cauncll (WFC),
established by the World Food Conference in 1974, was
held in Mexico City in Juna. Among the recommendations
of the resulting ‘Mexico Declaratlon” was that developing
countries should discuss the constraints which they face in
increasing food praductian, and ways of overcoming them.
Following this, the Bank was requested to initiate relevant
consultations among developing countries in the Asian
region. To this end, the Bank has agreed to co-sponsor,
with WFC, a meeting of its OMCs, to which developed
member countres will be Invited to attend as observers

Other international Organizations

Cooperation with the World Healin Organization (WHO)
continued through informal meetings and reguiar exchanges of information. In March, there was an ADB-WHO
meeting with the objective of exchanging information on
various matters of mutual interest, and in particular on
health sector projects being assisted by the two institutions, Bank missions also had discussions with WHO
regional offices and experts in pursuing thelr respective
operational aclivittes,

The Bank took advantage of oppartunities to meet with
senior officials of the Internalional Labour OrganisationMETROPOLITAN Water Intake Project in Seoul, Republic of Korea, which has a capacity of 1.2 million metric tons per day to
meet the growing demand for water in the metropolitan area.

(ILO) and to exchange information with them on the
possibilities of claser Bank-ILO cooperation in certaln activities. The technical assistance provided by the Bank for
the Regional Seminar on the Application of Appropriate
Technolegy in Forestry and Forest Industries was organized in collaboration wlih ILO,

There was continuing cooperation, including staff visits
and exchanges of information, between the Bank and other
infernational organizations, such as UNESCO, UNICEF, the
United Nations Capital Devalopmeni Fund and the Mekong
Committee during the year. The Bank maintained close
cooperation with ihe Economic and Sacial Commission for
Asia and the Pacific and some of tha ESCAP conferences
and mectings were attended by Bank staff. Thus the Bank
wes represented at the 44th Session of ESCAP held in
Bangkok In March; at the 2nd Regional Preparatory
Meeting for the United Nations Conference on Science and
Technology for Development held in Bangkok in July; and
at the 3rd session of the ESCAP Commitiee on Statistics
held in Bangkok in October. It was also represented at the
Inter-governrriental Planning Bureaux for Participation of
Develonment Banks in the Establishment of Regional Insustries, held in Bangkok In November. An officer deputed
by the Bank to ESCAP in 1977 continued to work as @
member of the Inter-Agency Task Force on Integrated Rural
Development.

Loan and Technical Assistance
Approvals in 1978'

Afghanistan, Democratic Republic of
LOAN

Seraj Agricuttural Development: $1.45 million technical
assistance loan from Specla! Funds for the preparation of a
compretiensive feasibility study to develop the Seraj area
at the confluence of the Helmand arid Arghandab rivers to
increase agricultural production on 10,700 hectares of virtually uncropped iand, and a further 8,200 hectares of partlally Irrigated land. The project, if feasible, will include
preparation of tender designs, specifications and tender
documents for construction financing (see technical
assistance below).

TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE

Seraj Agricultural Development: $150,000 for the preparation of a comprehensive feasibility study to develop the
Seraj area at the confluence of the Helmand and Arghandab rivers to increase agricultural production on areas indicated in the loan project.
1 Loans ace made from crdinary capital resources unless otherwise spociliad

and include technical assistance loans, Technical assistance rufers le that
provided ana grant basis.

 

49Vocational Education: $97,200 for the preparation of a
plan for the establishment ot secondary-laval vocational
schoals in seven major provincial centers and the
upgrading of the Vocational Teacher Educational Department at Kabul University,

Bangladesh
LOANS

Second Bangladesh Shilpa Bank: $25 million from
Special Funds to augment the foreign currency resources
of the Bangladesh Shiipa Bank to enable it to meei ihe
foreign exchange requirements of small-scale Industries
and service enterprises in the private sector, and industrial
and service enterprises in the private and public sectors.

Educational Equipment Development: $6 million from
Special Funds to facilitate a greater supply of educational
eguipmerit to the schools in Bangladesh and thereby promote better teaching quality. Fre Project involves cunstruction of integrated manufacturing facilities for design, and
manufacture of pre-production batches of equipment and
subsequent local contracting out for the manuJacture of
the bulk of the equipment.

Livestock Services Development and Tratning: $12.4
million from Speciai Funds. The main objectives of the Praject are to reduce the incidence of animal diseases and to

increase livestock productivity in Bangladesh through improving fivesiock health, as well as to provide the
necessary inputs, including the training of fieldstaff, to
support the Directorate of Llvesiock Services and io
develop it into an effective service unit.

Pabna Irrigation and Rural Development: $38 million from
Special Funds for the Improvement of flood control, irrigation, drainages, roads, agricultural production and provision
of marketing facilities in the densely populated Project
area lovated about 125 km. northwest of Dacea in the
districts of Pabna and Rajshati. The Project will provide
embankments and a major flood control/drainage network
io protect the entire area of about 185,000 hectares, and irrigation as wall as intensive agriculiural and rural development for an area of about 29,000 hectares, selactad for first
phase development. The Project will also provide consulting services for tha second phase development
feasibility study. {FAD is providing co-financing amounting
to $30 million.

Low-Lift Pump Maintenance Program: $8.9 milllon from
Special Funds as a Program Loan for the procurement of
pumps, spare parts, fools, repair, maintenance and
transportation equipment to strengthen the pump installa.
tion and servicing operations ‘of the Bangladesh
Agricuitural Development Corporation in lhe districts of
Dacea Division. This is the Bank's flrst Program Loan.

TOURISTS enjoying a visit to Fiji. Tourist facilities in the country are being improved with a Bank subioan through the Fiji
Development Bank,TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE

Pilot Plants Processes Development Center: $99,000 for
.preparing a detailed project proposal for the development
of the Pilot Plants anc Procasses Development Center tn
Dacca, ufier a careful assessment of the functions and
‘needs of thea Bangladesh Council ef Scientific and Industrial Research.

‘Study on Development of Pharmaceutical Industries:

ws $99,000 to examine the prospects for the economical pro
duction of fine chemicals and active pharmaceutical Ingradients in Bangladesh,

Study on Development of Man-Made Fiber Industry:
$190,000 io examine the prospects for the economical production of polyester and polynosic fibers in Bangladesh.

“.. Livestock Services Development and Training (Part A):

$200,000 for institution building of the Directorate of
Livestock Services,

Livestock Services Development and Training (Part B):
$150,000 for the preparation of a project in tha jivestock
‘sector.

-Pabna Irrigation (Phase 1): $150,000 for provision of consuitant services for a second phase development of the
Project area, covering: (I) the preparation of an overall study
~ of the area not irrigated under the Project, to recommand
the appropriate area for a second phase development, and
(ii) the preparation of a feasibility study of the second
phase area for intensive agricultural ‘and rural development.

District Towns Water Supply: $580,000, including
$230,000 financed by UNDP, for the preparation of a project
for the improvement of water supplies for tive district
‘towns (Gomilla, Bogra, Barisal, Mymensingh and Jessore}
up to the year 1990. In addition, the technical assistance is
- expected to help in establishing institutional arrangements
and financial systems needed to promote systematic
’ development of the water supply sector.

Burma
LOANS

Second Fisheries Development: $26 million from Special
Funds to develop offshore and coastal fisheries, including
enshore facilities and collecting centers in Tenasserlm
Division and Rangoon area, as well as to develop inland
fisheries resources, This wil} help mest the domestic demand for fish, and generate forcign exchange earnings
through export of high-priced species. The EEC is providing
co-financing amounting to $1,412 million.

Pyinmana iniegrated Sugar: $31.5 million from Spectal
Funds for the installation of a new sugar factory with a
capacity of 1,500 ions of cane per day (TCD) in Pyinmana,
~ Central Burma, construction of a storage dam and reservoir
on Ngalaik River, an irrigation network for about 8,000 hectares and provision of tarm and feeder,roads, workshop,
laboratory facilities and workers’ housing and water supply. The Project also includes rehabilitation of the existing
sugar factory with a capacily of 1,500 TCD in Pyinrnana, to
be undertaken by the Government, with co-financing from
the OPEG Special Fund amounting to $6.5 miltlon.

 

Rangoon Water Supply (Supplementary): ‘$7.96 million
from Special Funds to meet part of the foreign exchange
cost overrun on the Rangoon Water Supply Project ap.
proved in 1973, which aims to improva the supply systern in
Rangoon city by constructing earth dams, transmission
pipelines ‘and pumping stations. The OPEC Special Fund
provided co-financing amounting to $1.28 million In 1977
(see technical assistance below).

TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE .

Second Rice Processing Industries: $95,000 to formulate
a project for canstructian and renovation of rice miliing,
rice storage and rice bran oil processing facilities in the
country.

Rangoon Water Supply: $142,000 for the study of
Rangoon Water Supply system, including a Lariff study,-for
preparation of a project for improvement of the distribution
natwork which currently covers only 40 per cent of the city.

Fiji
LOAN

Second Power Project: $16.2 million for the construction
of a 132 kV transmission jine and substatlons to interconnact the centers of Suva and Lautoka and the proposed
Monasavu-Walloa Hydro-elactric Scheme. A system conirot
center for the Fiji power grid will also be constructad. The
World Bank, the European Investment Bank and the U.K.
Government ase providing co-financing amounting to $15.6
milion, $14.8 million and $9.1 million, respectively.

TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE

Fijt Electricity Authority Tariif Study: $70,000 technical
assistance to the Fiji Electricity Authority (FEA) to review
its Jong-range tariff policy and tariff structure, In light of the
Increasing financial burden which will be imposed on FEA
as a result of the capital-intensive national power develop
ment program based on the exploitation of Fiji's
hydropower potential.

Hong Kong
LOAN

Sha Tin Hospital-Polyclinic: $19.5 million for the construction of a 1,400-bed hospital-polyclinic as well as
clinical teaching facilities for students from the Medical
School of ihe Chinese University. The Project will serve as a
core medical facility for the new-town population of the
New Territories.

Indonesia
LOANS

Second Power Distribution: $31.4 milllon for the
rehabilitation and expansion of primary and secondary
distribution network in West Java, involving the construction of single circuit 70 kV transmission fine and 20 kV
overhead lines and underground cables. In addition, new
service connections will be provided to about 63,000 existing and 54,000 new customers.

Third Road: $34 million for upgrading and improvement
of about 420 kilometers of roads in East Java, for consul
tant services for the raview and updating of cartier teasibili
5112

 

JET airliner landing at Tribhuvan international Airport in Kathmandu, Nepal, which is being expanded and Improved with Bank
assistance to meet increasing air traffic needs.

ty studies for certaln road sections, and the preparation of
preliminary and deteiled engineering designs for selected
roads in Central Java and three provinces in Kalimantan.

Ball Irrigation: $18 million for a sural development project
consisting of the construction and improvement of irrigation and related facillties on 11,630 hectares, development
of access and rural roads, the establishment of a pilot soil
conservation scheme, a coconut stemwood utilization
scheme, watershed rehabilltation and the provision of rural
water supplies. It includes technica! assistance for
feasibility studies for a future irrigation and agricultural
development project on 24,800 hectares, water supply
facilities and preparation of a project for small-scale industries and handicrafts (see tectinical assistance on page
53).

Domestic Afrports: $1.3 million technical assistance loan
for feasibility studies, master planning and detailed
engineering designs for sevon domestic airports at Medan,
Palembang, Semarang, Pontianak, Balikpapan, Soreng and
Jayapura (see technical assistance on page 53).

Senior Technical Schools: $24 million from Speciat
Funds for the upgrading and rehahilitation of 17 Senlor
Tochnical Schools In Indonesia and for the establishment
of a regional Technical Teachars' Upgrading Centro at

Medan. The project involves site development, construction
ot new or rahabilitation of existlng school buildings, including classrooms, workshops and Jaboratarles and the
provision of furniture, equipment and teaching materlats.

Ujung Pandang it Power: $26 million for the installation
of two 12 MW dlesel generating units at Ujung Pandang In
South Sulawesl, construction of a 70/150 kV substation,
construction of 70 kV double circuit transmission line, construction of 48 kilometers of 20 kV and 100 kllameters of
tow voltage fines and provision of 80 distribution
transformers. Also provided are consultant services for
detailed designs and assistance for supervision of construction and training of personnel. The Project also involves detailed engineering designs for Tanggarl |
Hydropower Project In Minahasa area in North Sulawes|.

Taluk Lada Area Development (Phase IJ): $3.41 million
technical assistance loan for a feasibility study, detailed
engineering designs and tender documents for an
irrlgation-oriented area development project covering
about 25,100 hectares comprising. the Clliman-Cilemer
Scheme (12,100 hectares} and the Cibaliung Scheme
(13,000 hectares), both in Banten area in West Java (see
technical assistance on page 63}.Fifth Port: $26.3 million for the rehabilitation and expansion of port facillties at Belawan, involving dredging and
reclamation works, construction of road embankments and
a quay, paving of roads and port areas, provision of utility
services, construction of transit sheds and other supporting facilities, with the provision of tugboais, pilots. boats
and cargo handting equipment, The project Includes a
feasibility study and project preparation for Phase II
devalopment of the Port and a port operational improvement study, The Federal Republic of Garmany is providing
$40.39 million for co-financing (see technical assistance
below.)

Southeast Sulawesi! Transmigration and Area Develop
meni: $34.3 million for an integrated area development pro- |

ject in Southeast Sulawesi, involving the establishment of
new transmigrant Irrigated settlements, improvements to
‘the infrastructure tn existing settlaments and local villages,
improvemenis to rural roads, strengthening agricultural
supporting seryicas and studies for future development of
high prlorlty areas in the province. EEC Is providing $3.62

million for co-financing, in addition to $2.37 million for

technical assistance; the Islamic Development Bank is also
providing $10 million fer co-financing (see technical
assistance which follows). ‘

TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE

Sumatra Fisheries Development: $98,000 for consultant
sarvices for a comprehensive sludy of the fisheries sector
In the Sumatra region and a feasibility study of an Integrated fisheries development project in Sumatra.

Bali Irrigation (Phase Il): $150,000 for feasibillty studies
for a future Irrigation and agricultural development project,
rural water supply facilities and preparation of a small
scale industries component.

Domestic Alrports: $150,000 jor feasibility studies,
master planning and detailed engineering designs for
seven domastic airports.

Teluk Lada Area Development (Phase 11): $150,000 for a
feaslbility study and detailed engineering design for two irsigation schemes under Teluk Lada Area Uevelopment
(Phase ||) in Banten area, West Java.

Livestock Development: $190,000 to be financed by EEC!
with ine Bank acting as Executing Agency, for consultant
services to conduct a feasibillly study for increased
livestock production, principally from cattle and buffalo in
selecled areas in North Sumatra or South Kalimantan, and
to provide support services in the Project area,

Semarang Groundwater Investigation and Development:
$210,000 for cansultant services for the investigation and
exploration of groundwater potential in the Kali Gareng and
adjacent river basins as a source of water supply for
Semarang in Central Java. The work includes project
preparation for development of selected well-flelds in the
area,

Belawan Port Study (Phase tI): $150,000 for a feasibility
study for Phase Hl development of the Belawan Port.

University of North Sumatra: $246,000 for preparing a
project for the upgrading and development af Agriculture,
Technology, Natural Sclences, Medicine and Economics
faculties at the University of North Sumatra al Medan.

Southeast Sulawesi Transmigration and Area Development: $2,370,000 to be ftnanced by EEC! with the Bank acting as Executing Agency, for teasibillty studies for future
settlement aroas in Southeast Sulawesi,

Korea, Republic of
LOANS

Fifth Korea Development Bank: $50 million as a fifth
credli line to the Korea Development Bank for augmenting
its foreign exchange resources 1¢ enable ii to meet the
medium and long-term credit requirements ot private industrial enterprises.

Applied Research Institutes: $33 million for the expansion of facilities and strengthening of the institutional
structure of five research Institutes, through provision of
laboratory equipment for research and devalopment, consultant services and overseas training of technical staff,
The five institutes flnanced by the loan are (1) Korea Standards Research Institute, (2) Korea institute of Machinery
and Metals, (3) Korea Research Institute of Ships, (4) Korea
Institute of Energy Conservatlon and (5) Korea Ocean
Research and Development Institute.

Mineral Resources Development: $8 million for the expansion of facilities and institutional strengthening of the
Korea Research Institute of Geosclence and Mineral
Resources, through provision of machinery and equipment
for mineral resources data collection and various research
activities, and consultant services and training of technical
staff.

Fifth Small and Medium Industry Bank: $40 million as 2
fifih credit line to the Small and Medium Industry Bank for
augmenting lis foreign exchange resources to enable it to
meet the medium and long-term foreign exchange requiremenis of small and medium scale industrles In the
private sector.

_ Second Fisheries Development: $19 million to replace obsolate fishing vessels with different types of new vessels
and provide training vessels for fisherman, and to provide a
fisheries port and fishing base for exploitation of Korea’s
offshore resources, so as to help meel the increasing

domestic demand for fish and contribute to the improve

ment of fishermen's incomes as well as increase foreign exchange earnings through exports.

TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE .

Study on Small-Scale Industries: $97,000 to review the axisting structure, problems, policies and prospects of both
the small and medium industrial establishments in the
Republic of Korea, and to make recommendations for any
action which might be called for, in considering the longterm prospects of small-scale industries, within the industrial structure of the country,

1 EEC iunds will be ulllized for financing consultanis if they are hon eligible
sourers,

5354

incheon Port (Phase Il}: $150,000 to develop a plan for the
future development of Incheon Port and to detarmine the inyestments necessary to meet the forecast traffic demand
on the port through the year t990,

Applied Research Institutes: $860,000 to be financed by
UNDP to meel part of the cost of consulting services and
overseas training af personnel for the five Applied
Research Institutes.

Lao People’s Democratic Republic
LOAN

Forestry Development: $8 million trom Special Funds for
rehabilitation of the Lao Plymil!, establishment of a new
sawmill, construction ot foresl roads, rehabilitation of logging ang transport equipment, installation of facilities for
econamic ulilization of wood residues, provision of
pulldings and equipment for plant and machine
maintenance, and development of forest nurseries for
retorestalion purposes, ,

TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE

Forestry Development: $395,000 financed by UNOP with
the Bank acting as Executing Agency, to provide
assistance in projecl implementation, training of socal

staff, development of skills and the organization of opera
lions.

Vientiane Plain Rural Electrification: $14U,0U0 for the
preparation of a comprehensive rural electrification program for the Vientiane Plain, utilizing low-cost energy
available from the nearby Nam Ngum Hydropower Plant
and the formulation of a first phase Project for priority implementation.

Malaysia
LOANS

Trengganu Tengah Township Development: $16 million
for the provision of settlement-related infrastructure in a
ragional land development scheme covering an area of
about 1 million acres in the State of Trengganu on the east
coast of Peninsular Malaysia. The Praject includes the construction of lown development works, water supply systems and low-cosl housing in five new lowns, as well as the
provision of services of professional staff for strengthening
the Trengganu Tengah Development Authority.

Johor, Perak and Trengganu Water Supply: $31.74 illion
for the expansion of the water supply and distribution
systems for ihe following towns and surrounding rural
areas: Johor Bahru In the State of Johor; Dinding, Krian,
Larul dan Malang and Kuala Kangsar in the State of Perak;
and Kuala Trenggaru in the Stale of Trengganu. The Project witl meet the projectad demands in the varicus areas
up to 1988-1999 and is an integral part of the national water
supply development program,

Trengganu Hydropower: $45.4 milllon to finance part of
the foreign exchange costs of the main dam and
associated structures in a 400MW power project in the
State of Trengganu on the east coast of Peninsular
Malaysia, and lo finance the foreign exchange cost of a
panel of experts to monitor project implementation.

Australia, Japan and Kuwait are providing co-financing
amounting to $4.5 miltion, $12 million and $20 mililon,
respectively; additional co-financing is still required,

TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE

Kemasin-Semerak Integrated Rural Development:
$350,000 for the preparation of a feasibillty study tor an integrated rural development project coveriny drainage, irrigation and flood control, agricultural axtansion services,
development of livestock, aquaculture and agro-based industries, and provision of social infrastruciure, in the State
of Kelantan on the east coast of Peninsular Malaysia

Nepal
LOANS

Integrated Rural Development: $14 million from Special
Funds to finance a portion of foreign exchange costs and a
porlion of the local currency expenditures on the construction of certain infrastructure components, for agriculture
and industrial development, environmental protection,
social services, project monitoring and training, and consultant services for project implernentalion, EEC and IFAD
are providing co-financing amounting to $3.75 million and
$13 million, respectively (see technical assistance below).

Second Tribhuvan International Airport: $11 mitlion from
Spacial Funds to finance (i} a portion of the foreign exchange costs of civil works, buildings and consullant services for supervision of construction and for financial and
management aspects; and {ii} a portion of the local currency expenditures required for civt] works and building, The
OPEC Special Fund is also providing co-fnancing amounting to $5 million.

TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE

Livesiock Development: $230,000 to tormulate a
Liveslock Development Project, with particular emphasis
cn promotion of milk production in the Terai area of the
Janakpur Zone and the Banke and Bhardia Districts of ihe

_ Bheri Zone, and development of vaccine production,

strengthening of veterinary services, and lhe improvement
of training facilities at national level,

Integrated Rural Development: $200,000 for consultant
services tor project monitoring.

Second Integrated Rural Development: $256,000 to be
financed by EEC! with the Bank acting as Executing
Agency, for the preparation of a Second Integrated Rural
Development Project.

Pakistan
LOANS

D.G. Khan Cement: $51.5 million from Special Funds for
the installation of a dry-procass cement plant of 2,000
metric tons per day or 600,000 tons per year capacity in the
O.G Knan District in the Province of Punjab. The proposed
plant will produce ordinary Portland camant to heip meet
domestic demand.

+ EEC funds will be utilized for financing consullante if they are from eligible
sources, :Pipri Thermal Generation: $35 million from Special Funds ~

and $25 million from ordinary capital resources to finance a
part of the foreign exchange cos! of consiructing a thermal
generating station at Pipri, east of Karachi, by tha Karachi
Electric Supply Corporation Limited. The Project includes
the first 200 MW generating unit, and transmission and substation facilities to interconnect the generating station
with ihe Karachi grid. France is providing co-financing
amounting to 830.8 million, $15.4 million is available trom

--axport credit, and $92 million from Saud! Arabia.

Automotive Components Manufacturing: $32.1 million
for the modernization and expansion of facilitles for the

‘production of automotive components, comprising a tool

and dle shop, a press shop, a wheel-rim manufacturing
shop and a foundry.

” TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE

Baluchistan Livestock Development: $220,000 for a
detailed feasibility study and the formulation of an in
‘tegrated livestock development project in the Province of

* Baluchistan.

 

Second Fisheries Development: $350,000 to be financed
by EEC) with the Bank acting as Executing Agency for a

-teasibility study to formulate a second fisheries davelop
ment project, including conslruction of a new fisheries port
in Karachi, mechanization of coastal/artisanal fisheries, introduction of riew fishing techniques, establishment of onshore and marketing facilities, and development of Inland
fisheries.

- Papua New Guinea

LOANS
Second Papua New Guinea Development Bank: $7

“million from Special Funds as a second Jine of credit to
augment the joreign currency requirements of the Papua

New Guinea Development Bank, to enable it to meet the
madium and long-term cradii requirements of ils borrowers
in small-scale industry, smallholder agricultural devaiop
«ment and the sinall business sector,

Second Waler Supply: $6.4 million from Special Funds
for the provision of curnmprehensive piped water supply
facilities in the town of Madang for the first time, The Pro
“ject includos the development of a ground water supply

source capable of meeling expected demands up to 1986.

‘TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE

Project Planning and Implementation: $234,000 fur improving project selection and formulation as well as implementation of projects in the public sector, by training
loca! personne! in Government departmants and provincial
offices.

_ Philippines

LOANS
Allah Rivar trrigation: $23.5 tiillion for the construction of

irrigation and retated facilllles covering 21,000 hectares in
. the provinces of South Cotabato and Sultan Kudarat ln Min
1 -REC funds will be utilized for financing consultants if Ihoy ae flan elighble
faurees,

danaa, including provision for watershed management,
pllot demonstralion facrns, rural water supply and health
facilities, and consultant services for project implementa:
tion,

Second Manila Water Supply: $49 million for the construction of additional water supply, treatment and
distribution facilities which will fully utilize the exésting
combined capacity of the Metropolitan Waterworks and
Sewerage System and meet Manila’s basic water requirements up to 1985. The World Bank is providing cofinancing amounting to $85 milion.

Second Agusan frrigation: $14 million from Special
Funds for construction of additional irrigation and related
iacililies covering 8,000 hectares in the provinces of
Agusan del Norte and Agusan del Sur in Mindanac. The
Project also includes land development, establishment of
ihree pilot demonstration farms, rural water supply, health
service facilities (including a schistosomiasis contral program) and consultant services for project implementation.

JAVE products manufactured at a factory in Mariveles,
Philippines, sei up with Bank assistance, charinelled
ihreugh the Development Bank of the Philippines.Laguna de Bay Fish Pen Development: $9 million for (i)
the development of fish pen modules covering 2,500 hectares in Laguna de Bay through the extension of sub-loans
to small-scale fishermen to pracure nacessary matarials,
and {il) the consiruction of a fish hatchory/nursery complex,
provision of related equipment and introduction of a supportive marketing program. The OPEG Special Fund is providing co-financing amounting to $4.5 million.

Mindanao Secondary and Feader Roads; $24 miillon tor
_ the improvement and upgrading of 558 kilometers of secondary and teeder roads in the provinces of Sultan Kudarat,
Misamis Oriental, Agusan del Norte and South Cotabato in
Northern and Southern Mindanao; assistance to four previncial governmerils on road maintenance programs; and
consultant services for construction supervision,
maintenance assistance and for Project coordination.

TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE

Malangas Coal Mina: $114,000 for the preparation of a
detailed feasibility study of, and the drawing up of amining
master plan-for, the Malangas coalfield In Mindanao. Gomponents include an in-depth analysis of mineable coal
reserves, farmulation of surface and underground exploration programs, preparation of an exploitation masterplan,
fundamental anginsaring designs and equipment specifications, transportation and market analyses, and formulation

 

WORKER In an aluminum factory in Thailand, financed with @ Bai
subloan through the Industrial Finance Corporation of Thailand,

cai as

56

of an organization plan.

Fisheries Development: $93,000 for (i) a general study of
the fishery sactor in the Philippines, including ihe identification of specific Investment projects and their relative
priorities, and (ii) the preparation of a detailed feasibility
study tor an integrated fisheries development project.

Singapore
LOAN

Kent Ridge Hospital-Polyctinic: $19 million for the construction of Phase | of a general hospital with a capacity of
485 beds, including assoclated specialist clinics, centralized support facilities and teaching facllities for the Medical
School at the University of Singapore. The Project involves
sie development, buildings and building servicas, axternal
works such as roads and drainage, and the provision of
medical and hospilal equipment.

Sotomon Islands
TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE

Second National Development Pian: $25,000 to finance
the cost of engaging three consultants to assist the
Government In the preparation of the Second National
Davelopment Flan (1980-1984}, which is currently being formulated by the Central Planning Office in association with
concerned ministries and agencias.

Forestry Development: $81,000 for the preparation of the
first phase investment program covering plantation
establishment on 5,600 hectares of Government-owned
land in the immediate wake of licensed logging at Viru
Kalona. The technical assistance will cover (i) project
preparation for a 10-year plantation establishment program
fallowing systematic logging; {ii) preparation of a detailed
plan for roading within the area, salvage logging in the
previously cut-over forest and consideration of selective

falting within established plamtations and (ill} considaration
of the development of primary processing, and an estimation of cost for each component,

Sri Lanka, Democratic Soctalist Republic of
LOAN

Sevanagala Sugar Development: $33.9 million from
Special Funds for the development of about 9,000 hectares
of Jand for sugar cane plantation on the left bank of
Walawe River, aboul 160 kilometers southeast of Colombo,
constructlon of Irrigation network, and installation of a
sugar factory of 2,000 tons of cane per day capacity. The
Project includes proviston of agricultural development, supporting services and facilities, roads and buildings. H also
includes assistance to the Sri Lanka Sugar Corporation in
overall organizational improvements (see technical
assistance below)

TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE

Rural Credit: $91,200 for an in-depth examination of the
rural credit system in all its aspects, and the formulation of
a rural credit project covering a number of carefully
selected areas,

Sevanagala Sugar Develapmant: $205,000, in conjunction
with the loan for the Sevanagala Sugar Development Project, to assisl the Sri Lanka Sugar Corporation in making
overall organizational improvements.

Thailand
LOANS

Sengkhla and Phuket Ports: $1.5 million technical
assistance loan to finance engineering services for de-tailed site Investigations, master plans and detailed
designs and tender documents for the development of two
‘major deep-sea ports at Songkhla and Phuket in southern
Thatland,

. ‘Fourth Industrial Finance Corporation of Thailand: $30
miltion as a fourth liné of credit to augment the foreign exchange resources of the Industrial Finance Corporation of
Thailand for relending to private industrial establishments.

‘Fourth Power Distribution: $33.7 mililon to the
etropolitan Electricity Authority (MEA) to construct
ubstations and distribution lines for expanding the
apacity and improving the reliability of Bangkok's distrlbuion system, and extanding MEA’s service area to the heavipopulated districts outside the city.

‘Fourth Power Transmission: $36.5 million to the Electrics
ty Generating Authority of Thailand to flnance the con.
struction of two main 230 kV transmission lines to provide
“power to the northeastern region from hydro-electric and
gnite-fired power plants in the nerth. .

‘Kud Multipurpose: $1.38 million tachnical assistance
an for updating existing feasibility studies, preparation of
etailad designs and tender documents and iraining of
cal staff for a project envisaging impravement of three exting irrigation systems serving'an area of 43,000 hectares,
nd installing a power house with generation capacity of
00 MW in the northern region of Thailand (see technical
sassisiance which follows),

Aquaculture Development: $14 million from Special
‘Funds for upgrading of existing shrimp/ffish ponds,
evelopment of 2,000 hectares of swamp iand Into small
hrimp/fish ponds, setting up two pilot hatcheries,
stablishment of 3,000 Pangasius fish cages and developent of 1,000 hectares of land into small integrated farms
in-varlous parts of Thaltand ta Increase fisn and shrimp prouction through aquaculture. EEC is providing co-financing
amounting to $1.01 million (see technical assistance which
allows).

\.. Third Highway: $40 milllon from ordinary capital
esources for improvement of 410 kilometers of nine proyinjal roads located in the north, northeast and ceniral
ions of Thalland, reconstruction of original two-lane
arriage-way of the national highway between Bang Na and
ang Pakorg (Route 34), together with associated consul
ant services for construction supervision, and consultant
services for a feasibility study and detailed engineering
designs for 61 provincial roads (see technical assistance
which follows).

ECHNICAL ASSISTANCE

=, Southern Region Industrial Estate: $99,600 for a comprehensive study ta formulate a project tor an industrial
. €state In the southern region of Thailand.

Kud Multipurpose: $350,000, including $200,000 financed
by UNDP with the Bank acting as Executing Agency, to update existing feasibility studles and prepare detailed
designs and tender documents for niultipurpose dams in
the northern region of Thailand,

Aquaculture Development Il: $170,000 to finance the
foralgn exchange costs of a feasibility study tor a second
aquaculture project.

Third Highway: $150,000 to finance part of tha consultant
services required for the preparation of a feasibility study
of the 61 provincial roads included in the Third Highway
Project.

Tonga
LOAN

Tonga Development Bank: $1.5 miliion from Special
Funds to augment the foreign currenoy resources of the
Tonga Devalopment Bank, to enable it to meet medium and
long-term credit requirements for development projects
(see technical assistance below).

TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE

Tonga Development Bank: $88,000 for extension of the
existing advisory technical assistance.

Viet Nam, Socialist Republic of
TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE

Saigon Water Distribution: $70,000 to assist Government
agencies involved in the earlior Project and to expedite procurement of equipment and malerials to be financed out of
the Bank Ioan.

Binh Dinh Irrigation, Go Cong Pioneer Agriculture and
Tan An Integrated Agriculture: $55,000 to assist Government agencies involved in the three earlier Projects and to
expedite procuremeni of equipment and construction
materials to be financed out of the respective Bank loans.

Western Samoa
LOAN

Third Development Bank of Western Samoa: $4 million
from Special Funds as a third line of credit to augment the
foreign currency resources of the Development Bank of
Western Samoa, to enable It to mest medium and long-term
credit requirements for development projects.

TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE

Fourth Five-Year Development Plan Preparation: $98,000
for the preparation of the Fourth Five-Year Development
Plan to help lhe country in assessing its future potential
and in identifying suitable action programs to meet
established priorities.

57‘Capital

‘AS OF 31 December 1978 the authorized captial stock of
the Bank was $9,406.9 million (SDR 7,220.6 million). The
‘subscribed capital was 8,740.8 million (SDR 6,709.3
million), consisting of $6,986.6 million (SDR 5,362.8 million)
in callable capita! and $1,754.2 million (SDR 1,346.5 million)
“in paid-in capital. The subscribed capital was increased
during the year by $1,223.3 million (SDR 939 miilion) on ac»
count of (i) a subscription of $0.4 million (SDR 0.3 million) by
“the Republic of Maldives as a new member, (it) a subscription of $14.3 million (SDR 14 milllon) to a spacial capital increase by Switzerland and (iii) the subscriptions of $1,208.6
millfon (SDR 927.7 million) by 11 members under the second
‘general capital increase.

‘Increase tn Capital Stock

Resolution No. 104! of the Board of Governors provided
hat subscriptions under the second general capital inrease* be made not later than 31 March 1978 and that the
irst tastalments of subscriptions to paid-in shares be paid
nor hefore 31 March 1978, It was also provided in the
Resolution that, at the request of a member, the Board of
Directors may allow that meinber up to a further month (i.e,
until 30 April 1978) to make its subscription, and up to a furher three months after 31 March in the relevant year for
paymerit of any ingtalinent by that member. Acting pursuant to these powers, the Goard of Directors extended the

tinal date for subscriptions to 30 April 1978, and the final
“date for payment of the firsl inslalments of subscriptions
‘to paid-in shares to 30 June 1978.

Subsequently, by Resolution No. 120° of the Board of
Governors, the final date for subscripliuns was exlended to
0 April 1979. The Resolution also laid down that any
member subscribing to the second general capital increase
after that date shat! pay the firsl instalrnent of ils subscription to paid-in shares within three manths after the daie of
such subscription, and the second, third and fourth instalmenis on the firsl, second and third anniversaries,
respectively, of the date of payment of the first instalment.
. During the year, subscriptions amounting to $1,208.6
smition (SOR 927.7 million) were received under the second

general capital increase, Ten members subscribed to their

1 “Adopted on 29 October 1976,

2. The second genmal increase became effective on 30 Seplember 1977

3 ‘Adopted on 12 May 1978

ORDINARY CAPITAL RESOURCES
AND FINANCIAL MANAGEMENT

full share entitlements, while one member made a partial
subscription. As a result, aggregate subscriptions under
the second general capital Increase amounted to $4,742.65
million (SDR 3,640.2 million) at the end of the year.

Valuation of Capital

The capital stock of the Bank is defined In Article 4,
paragraph 4, of the Articles of Agreement as being ‘in
terms of United States dollars of the weight and finanass in
effect on 31 January 1966" (the 1966 dollar). The capital
stock had historically been translaled into the current
United States dollar (the Bank’s unit of account) on the
basis of Its par value in terms of gold. From 1973 until 31
March 1978, the rate arrived at on this basis was $1.20635
per 1966 dollar. _

Since 1 April 1978, at which time the Second Amendment
to the Articles of Agreement of the Inlernational Monetary
Fund (IMF} came into effect, currencies no longer have par
values in terms of gold. The Bank is examining the implications of this change on the valuation of its capital stock but
has not yet taken a decision on the matter.

Pending such a decision, the Bank’s capital stock has
been valued for purposes of ihe accompanying 1978 financial statements in tarms of the Special Drawing Right
(SDR), on the basis that each share has the value of SDR
10,000, and is expressed in currenl United States dollars on
the basis ot the raie for the SNR as of 31 Nacember 1978, as
computed by the IMF.

Borrowings

Buring tha year, six borrowings amatunting io the
equivalent of $380.1 million were undertaken by the Bank,
including the Bank's first public offering in the exlernal yen
market. The terms obtained on borrowings In 1978 continued to improye, reflecting not only the favorable market
conditions bul also ihe fact thal Ihe Bank’s name and
sound financial position are now well accanted In major
capital markets.

Borrowings made during the year were as follows:

18-YEAR SWISS FRANC PUBLIC BOND ISSUE

In January, the Bank offered a public issue of SwF80
million of bonds in Switzerland at a coupon rate of 4.25 per
cent per annum payable annually wilh an c3sue price of

STRUCTION worker at ihe Higan Transmission lower, part of the Mindanao Power Project in the Philippines.99.50 per cent and a final maturity of 16 years, This was the
Bank's fourth public issue on the Swiss capital market. The
bonds are listed on the stock exchanges of Zurich, Basle,
Geneva, Lausanne and Berne.

TWO-YEAR UNITED STATES DOLLAR BONDS
Two-Year Bonds of 1978 totalling $70 million, issued at
par with an interest rate of 7.80 per cent per annum payable

BORROWINGS: 1969-1978

$Miiion

 

_[B) OUTSTANDING AMOUNT

AT END OF YEAR
ANNUAL BORROWINGS

seml-annually, were placed in April with central banks and
monetary authorities of 26 member countries. The aagregate principal amount of the bonds represents an increase of $20 million over that of the Two-Year Bonds of
4976 which matured on 1 April 1978.

TEN-YEAR DEUTSCHE MARK PUBLIC ISSUE

Also In April, OM100 million of bonds were offered publicly In the Federal Republic of Germany with an interest rate
of 5.50 per cent per annum payable annually, a full maturity
of ten years, and an issue price of 99.75 per cent. This was
the Bank's fourth public issue in the German capital
market. The bonds are listed on the stock exctianges of
Frankfurt and Duesseldorf.

 

JAPANESE YEN BONDS — FIFTH SERIES

tn May, the Bank offered Its fifth yen bond issue in Japan a 4 ee 78
totalling ¥ 16 billion, with a final maturity of 15 years, a

 

BORROWINGS IN 1978

 

 

Amount in
Currency of US$
Countries Issue Borrowing Equivalent!
(million) (million)
Germany, Federal 5% % 10-Year Bonds
Rapublic of dus 1988 DM 100 84,7
Japan 6.30% 15-Year Bonds
due 1993 (Fifth Serias) ¥ 15,000 7741
Switzerland 44% 18-Year Bonds
cue 1893 _ SwF 80 49.5
4% % 10-Year Notes
due 1988 SwF 100 61.8
Central Banks/ 7.8% 2-Year Bonds
Monetary Authorities due 1980 USS 70 70.0
intecnational? 6.76% 10-Year Bonds
due 1988 ¥ 15,000 TA
390.19

TOTAL

1 US dollar equivalents are based on the exchange rates used by the Bank on 31 December 1978,
2 internalional capital markels outside Japan and Ihe United States.

3 Tolal does no} lally due to rounding.

60coupon rate of 6.30 ger cent per annum payable semiannually and an issue price of 99.75 per cent. The bonds,
which are listed on the stock exchanges of Tokyo, Osaka
and Nagoya, are redeemable in nine equal instalments of
¥900 milllon from 1984 through 1992, with a final instalment
of ¥6.9 billion in 1983.

PRIVATE PLACEMENT IN SWISS FRANCS

In July, notes amounting to SwF100 million were placed
privately in Switzerland. The notes, which have a full
maturity of ten years; were issued at par and have an Interest rate of 4.375 per cent per annum payable annually.

EXTERNAL YEN BOND ISSUE

The Bank’s first external yen bond issue in International
capital markets outside Japan and the United States was
offered In September. The issue, which was for an amount
of 15 bitiion, was made ai par with a coupon rate of 5.75
per cent per annum payable annually and 4 full maturity of
ten years. The bonds are listed on the stock exchanges of
Luxembourg and Singapore.

Bond Redemptions

During the year, three earller issues totalling US$130.7
million were fully redeemed, of which $50 millicn was in
respect of US dollar two-year bonds and $80.7 million was
In respecl of Japanese yen borrowings.

Review of Financial Policies

The annual review of the Bank’s financial policies took
place early In 1978. The review related to the Bank’s lending
program from ordinary capital resources during tho period
1978-1981, its broad financial objectives and key financial
indicators, its tiquidity policy and future borrowing program
and Its lending rate, The lending program for 1978-1981 was
increased from $3,250 million to $3,450 million and the jevel
of new loan commitments in 1978 was set at $750 million.
Subject to annual review, this was to increase by $75
million per annus in succeeding years. The liquidity policy
was modified slightly to reduce the projected liquidity requirements. Otherwise, the financial objectives and key
financial indicators of the Bank remained as approved in
1977.

Lending Rate

Afler a ceview of some approaches to determination of
the fending rate, the Board of Directors concluded that,
while the Bank’s borrowing costs (to which a positive
spread is added to cover its administrative expanses) provided a quantitative basis {or arriving at the likely level at
which the lending rate of the Bank could be held, the appropriale rate should finally depend on the impact of the
lending rate’so derived on (he net income and the consequent} build-up in the reserves of the Bank, and, ultirnately,
on the two decisive financial indicators, namaly, the Interest Coverage Ratio and the Reserve: Loan Ratio. The
rate chosen should be such that these indicators do nol tall
below the minimum acceptable levels.

Taking ralevant factors inio consideration, the Board
decided that the lending rate of the Bank should be set at
7,85 per cent per annum with effect from 1 January 1978.
This rate was later raised to 7.70 per cent per annum In the

second quarter of the year. In August 1978, the matter was
reviewed agaln by the Board and it was decided that the
Jending rate should continue unchanged at 7.70 per cent
per annum for the rest of the year.’

Commitment Charge

Following a comprehensive review of the policy on the
commitment charge early in 1978, the charge was raised
from 0.45 per cent per annum to 0.75 per cent per annum.

Member Currencies

In Sine with past practice based on the decision taken by
the Board of Directors on 3t August 1972, the Bank adopted
{in the first quarter of 1978) new exchange rates in respect
of the currencies of 16 member countrles for translation In
its accounts and for purposes of maintenance of value of
such currencies held by the Bank. Most amounts receivable
from or payable to member countries in respect of such
maintenance of value obligations had been settled by the
end of the year.

With the entry into forge on 1 April 1978 of the Second
Amendment to the Articles of Agreement of the IMF, further
action on maintenance of value has been held in abeyance
pending a decision on the valuation of the Bank’s capital.
Consequently, the new exchange raies adupted as from 1
April 1978 in respect of the currencies of 30 member countries have been used only for the purpose of transiation in
the Bank’s accounts.

Loan Disbursements and Repayments

Loan disbursements from ordinary capital resources during the yaar amounted to $295 milllon, bringing total
disbursements from this source up to the end ot 1978 to
$1,515 million. Loan repayments in 1978 totalled $64.7
roillion, consisting of $62.5 million on Joans held by the
Bank and $2.2 million on portions of loans sold to participants. Cumulative loan repayments up to the end of
1978 reached $196.5 million, consisting of $183.7 million on
loans held by the Bank and $12.8 million on portions sold to
participants.

Investments

At the end of the year the Bank's investments —- held in
23 separate currencies — amounted to the equivalent of
$4,264 million, including investments and Special Reserve
Fund Assets, of which 32.7 per cent was held in government
securities and government-guaranteed obligations of
member countries and 67.3 per cent in time deposits and
certificates of deposit with banks in member countries and
the Bank for International Settlements.

Of the total invastments ir, government securities and
government-guaranteed obligations of member countries,
60 par cent was invested in securities maturing within one
year and 40 per cent in securities maturing after one year
up to five years. Of the total invesiments in time deposits
and certificates of deposit with banks In member countries
and the Bank tor international Settlements, 32.4 per cent
was invested in deposits maturing within one year and 67.6
per cenit in deposits maturing after one year up to five
years.

4 The lending rate was reduced tp 7.40 per cent per annum with effect Irom
i January 19/9.

6462

SIGNING of documents in Tokyo in May of tha pubtic offering in Japan of ¥185 billion, 6.30% 15-Year Bonds due 1993

(Fifth Series).

Cost Sharing Between Ordinary Capital
Resqurces and Special Funds

The formula for apportioning the Bank's administrative
expenses between ordinary capital resources and Special
Funds adopted in 1973 excluded certain items from the
computation and apportioned the balance on the basis of
the number and amounts of loans approved during the year
from each of these resources, This formula was revised in
1976, because Special Funds operations were considered
to have become a regular feature of the Bank’s normal
business, and the income earned on Special Funds was tna
position to sustain the Administration Charge applicable to
such operations. Under the current formula, ihe entire administrative expenses of the Bank are now apportioned on
the basis of tha number ot loans approved during the year
out of ordinary capital resources and Special Funds,

Income and Expenses’

Gross Income of the Bank in 1978, before net gain from
changes In the valua of currencies, was $213.2 million, an
increase of $44.6 million, or 26.4 per cent, on that for the
preceding year.

Administrative Expenses, after deducting $10.3 million
attributable to Special Fund operations, were $14.8 million
Services to Member Countries amounted to $1.1 million,
whhte Financial Expenses totalled $111.6 million. Gross Expenses for the year thus amounted to $127.2 million

Nei Income for the year before net gain fram changes in
ihe value of currencies, was therefore $85.9 milllon. There
was a net gain of $34.2 million on account of changas in the
value of currericies during the year, which increased the net
income for 1978 to $120.1 million, of which $13.7 million

1 Excluding Inccme and expenses of the Special Funds.

   

was appropriated as commissions to the Special Reserve.
The Bank's net income in 1978 after Appropriation of Commissions to Special Reserve was therefore $105.4 million,
as shown in Appendix I-Il.

Accumulated Net Income and Reserves

As of 31 Decamber 1978, the Ordinary Reserve of the
Bank amounted to $196.8 million, having been augmenied
during the year by the Net Income after Appropriation of
Commissians to Special Reserve for 1977 totalling $72.4
million, which the Board of Governors allocated to Ihe Ordinary Reserve at the Eleventh Annua! Meeting. The Ordinary Reserve, however, was charged during the year with
an amount of $17.8 milllon In connection with the restatement, for purposes of the Bank's financial statements, of
capital stock amounts by the substitution of the SOR for
the 1966 dollar as the unit of value following the entry into
force of the Second Amendment to the IMF Articles of
Agreement. This charge represenled the portion that was
nol offset by notional amounts required t¢ maintain the
value of currency holdings when capital stock amounts
were restated in tarms of the SDR and translated into current United States dollars, the Bank's unit of account.
Since the value of the SDR in terms of current United States
dollars varles from day to day, the Bank’s capital stock
amounts, restated in terms of the SDR and translated into
current United States dollars, are subject to further arjustment at the and of each accounting period.

The Bank also has a Special Reserve representing com
missions appropriated pursuant to Articles 16 and 17. The
amount was $28.8 million as of 31 December 1977. This increased by $13.7 million during the year to $42.5 million as
of $1 December 1978. The combined total of the two
Reserves maintained by the Bank therefore amounted to
$239.3 mililon at fhe end of 1978.§ may not tally betause of Founding) ©

 

A977
“Actual % Budget

 

  

_.. 19787

 

 
    
  

 

© “@rogs Income... 1088. 187.1
. Less Expenses Charg
» Ordinary Capital Aesource

     
   
   
    

44d
12:

17.4
4.2

 

336

 

45

   

‘Actual

2132 
 

   

 

in.197 Wand mesitied iq 1973-and 1978. The Chargé:ta at
i vesources.and Special.Funds. +Bee eee
eaeSPECIAL FUNDS

THE YEAR 1978 Saw the successiul conclusion of negattations with donor countries on a second replenishment of
the Asian Development Fund (ADF lil), thus enabling the Bank to continue Its concessional lending operations on an expanded scale In the tollowing four years. By
the end of the year, unqualified contribution commitments
had been recelved in respect of al! donor countries’ contributions to the first replenishment (ADF Il), apart from an
amount equivalent to one-third of the United States! centribution which still awaited legislative action. Nearly all of
the resources of the Multi-Purpose Special Fund (MPSF)!
had been transferred to ADF, leaving a small balance
representing principally the uncammitted portion of
Canada's inltial contribution which will be transferred to
ADF as committed. Further contributions lo the Technical
Assistance Special Fund (TASF) were received during 1978
from nine member countries,

Asian Development Fund
Second Replenishment i

In July, the Board of Governors adopted Hesolution No.
121, authorizing the Bank to receive contributions to a second replenishment of the Asian Development Fund (ADF
(Il) in an aggregate amount of $2,150 million.

The Bank's proposals for the replenishment, designed to
cover a concessional lending program of $2,150 million
over the four-year period 1979-1982, wera considered at 4
mesling of developed member countries in Kyato in October 1977, followed by a meetirtg in Geneva in February
4978, and a further meeting In Vienna in April. At the Vierina
“meeting, agreement was reached on all outstanding
aspects of the proposed replenishment, and a scheme acceptable to alf donar countries was finally settled. All three
meetings were chaired by Sir John Chadwick, Special Adviser to the President of the Bank.

The final scheme embodied in Resolution No, 121 calls
for contributions by donor countries towards a basic
replenishment total of $2,000 million in accordance with
the effort-sharing arrangements that had been agraed upon
in connection with the First Replenishment (AOF th. In all,
16 countries have so far undartaken to participate in ADF IIt
— Australia, Austria, Belgium, Canada, Denmark, Finland,
France, Federal Republic of Germany, Italy, Japan,
Netherlands, Norway, Sweden, Switzerland, Uniled

1 MPSF, together with the Agricultural Special Fund (ASF), was
established in 1968, ASF was wound up in 1970, and Its resources were
consolidated with Ihose of MPSF,

 

    
  
 
 
 
 
 
   
 
 
 
  
 
  
   
 
 
  
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
   

Educa ional ‘Equipment Develo
Low-Lift Pump Maintenanec! Prag
BURMA : i
Second Fisheries Déveloprnéni 7
‘Rangoon Water-Supply (Supplemy
-Pyinmana: tritegrated Sugar
INDONESIA z
‘Senior Technical “Scho:
LAO: ‘PEOPLE: S: GEMOCRATIC REPU
‘Forestry ‘Development :
NEPAL °
“Second Tribhuvan International a
Integrated ‘Bural eRe «
‘PAKISTAN ©: ,

 

Second Papua ‘New 6
Development Bank,
PHILIPPINES eh ;
Second Agusan River Irrigation © “SRELANKA, DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIS'
REPUBLIC OF *
: Sévanagala: Sugar’ ..THAILAND ‘
Aquaculture Devalormert,
A rONGA
Tonga: Siulopragist ‘Bank

"WESTERN: SAMOA:
Third Der a opment ‘Bank of

  

 

RMEN in Bangladesh, who will benefit from the Bank’s expanding assistance to the country’s fisherles sector.

6566

STATUS OF SPECIAL FUNDS
(US dollars million equivalent}!

As of 31 As of 31°

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

December 1977 Change December 1978
ASIAN DEVELOPMENT FUND
Contributed Resources?
Australia 54.04 + 11.69 65.73
Austria 4.97 + 3,56 8.53
Belgium 13.45 + 4.86 18.31
Canada 74.36 + 16.47 90.83
Denmark 10,84 + 3,82 14.66
Finland ‘ 3.45 + 0,08 3.63
Germany, Federal Republic of 109.10 + 40.43 149.53
Italy 28.47 + 9.95 38.42
dapan 611.94 + 261.34 893.29
Netherlands 29.62 + 9.91 99.52
New Zealand 9.09 + 0.43 9.53
Norway 8.19 + 2.18 10.37
Sweden 5.96 + 3.76 . 9.72
Switzerland 16.94 + 8.46 26.408
Unitad Kingdom 56.94 + 16.87 73.85
United States 150.00 + 120,00 270.004
Total Contributed Resources 1,187.38 + 533.79 4,721.17
Set-Aside Resources 57.43° a+ 4.69 62.03°
Other Resources 3.64 + 0.47 4.08
Accumulated Net Income 28.58 + 23,96 51.94
Total Asian Development Fund 4,277.01 + §62.21 4,839.22
MULTI-PURPOSE SPECIAL FUND
Contributed Resources
Canada 7.42 — 0.57 6.85
Acoumulated Net income and Other Credit 0.77 — 020 0.58
Total Multi-Purpose Special Fund 8.19 — 0.76 7.43
Total Contributions, Set-Aside Resources, Other
Resourres, Net Income and Other Credit 1,286.20 + 561.45 1,846.65
Less: Loan Gommitmenis? 1,192.06 + A32.77 1,624.83
Balance (Uncommitted Resources} 93.14 + 428.68 221.82

 

Note: lotats may not acd dus to rounding,

4. Ai the exchange males used by the Bank at the relevant dates.

2 Contributions, of Instalments thercot, unconditlonally cammitted to the Beni. Includes contributions to the Multi-Purpase Spactal Fund (MPSF), amounts
transferred Iram MPST to the Aslan Development Fun and resources: contributed under ADF | and ADE il.

Excludes Switzerland's contslbution to ADF It receivul by tha Bank In December 1978, a8 the contslbution will not lin eftective until the arrangements for ADF III
as a whale become effective.

Includes only the first two instalments of the United States’ contrihuton to AOF Il, as the balance of the nantrlbutien Is subject to completion of nec
legislation.

Valued In terms ol 1806 cloffara at the rate of $1,20635 per 1906 dollar.

Valued in ierns of the SOR at tne rate of $1.00279 per SDR applicable as of 31 December 1978.

Net of sancellations ano repayinents ($10.83 million as af $1 December 1977 and $27.2 million as ol 31 December 1978 and including adjustrents dua to the effecl of exchange rate changes on amounts of fuans disbursed In currencies other than the Unlted’States dollar ($36.4 mililon as af 31 December 1977 and
$105.04 million a3 of 31 December 1978).

 

oO

e

 

NoeKingdom and United States. In addition, the Resolution
authorized the Bank to receive supplementary contribu.
tlons up to a total of $150 million or such higher amount as
may be approved by the Board of Directors. The making oi
supplementary contributions will not, however, affect in
any way the relative effort-sharing arrangements for ihe
purpose of future replenishments. By the end of 1978,
Australia, Austria, Federal Republic of Germany, Japan,
Switzerland and United Kingdom had promised supplementary contributions totalling the target of $150 million
authorized by Resolution No. 121. .

The Resolution provides that unquailfled contribution
commitments by donor countries must reach an aggregate
amount of $1,000 million before ADF Iil arrangements as a
whole come into-effect, and specifles 31 March 1979 as the
target date for this.’ At the end of 1978, the Bank had
received the first contribution Instrument, which was
deposited by Switzeriand.

Progress of First Replenishment

The first replenishment of the Asian Development Fund
(ADF Il}, designed to finance the Bank’s concessional lending program over the three-year period 1976-1978, was
authorized in December 1975 by Resolution No. 92.0f the
Board of Governors. The total amount authorized for the
replenishment was $830 million, later revised to $809

1 ADF Ul caine into efiest on 29 March 1979,

isin million):

RY AND SECTORAL: DISTRIBUTION ‘OF: ‘SPECIAL’ FUNDS LOANS T.0 END: OF 1978

 

. os Agriculture’ industry: “Gk:
%Shafe.. : and.Agro- . and:Devel-’ Power”
ee “opment ' :

industry :

 

10164

million. By April 1978 the Bank had received unquallfied
contribution commitments from 15 donor countries, namely, Australia, Ausirta, Belgium, Canada, Denmark, Federal
Republic of Germany, Italy, Japan, Netherlands, New
Zealand, Norway, Sweden, Switzerland, Uniled Kingdom
and ‘United States, in an aggregate amount of $630.5
million. By the middle of 1978, in accordance with the provisions of Resolution No. 92, the whule of this arnount had
become available to the Bank for loan commitment purposes, As af 31 December 1978, follawing the deposit of a
second unqualified contribution commitment by the United
Siates, the total of such commitments under ADF [| had
reached $701 million,

Resources and Utilization’

At the end of 1977, the combined resources of ADF and
MPSF had totailed $1,285 million at the then prevailing exchange rates. Against these resources, loan commitments
{afier allowing for exchange rate adjustments, cancellations and repayments) totalling $1,192 million had been approved, leaving an uncommitted balance at the beginning
of 1976 of $93 million.

The two contribution commitments deposited during the
year by the United States under ADF Il increased the
available resources by a tolal of $120 million. The release of

1 Sue chapier on Operations and Policlas for description of landing from
Special Funds.

6.0005

 
 
 
       
  

19.00 -: et ft Me Se
NBT
2050°.- -  7.00'. °, 6.30
3.33 $40.25 ~~ 3.70" 7
77166 | 203.62 260.34. .

 

 

6768.

the final instalments of other contributors added a further

. $235 million at 31 December 1978 exchange rates.

Individual contributions to ADF and MPSF have been
made In the national currencies of the respective contributors. During the year, appreciations in the values of
some of the major contributors’ national currencies against
the United States dollar resulted In a net increase in the
total value of contributed resources expressed in terms of
United States dollars. In addition, $30 million accrued during the year in the form of net Income and repayments of
earlier Special Funds loans. Total resources of ADF and
MPSF at the end of 1978 therefore stood at $1,846.7 million,
an increase of $661.5 million during the year.

The total of new ADF loans approved during 1978 was
$381 million, or $109 million above that of the previous year.
As of 31 December 1978 the cumulative ammount committed
in loans (after allowing for exchange rate adjustments,
cancellations and repayments) from the combined
resources of ADF and MPSF was’$1,624.8 million, laaving &
balance of uncommitted resources at that date of $221.8
million. Loan disbursements In 1978 amounted to $167.2
million, bringing total disbursements from Special Funds to
$462.2 million. Loan ‘repayments in 1978 totalled $6.3

miltion; cumulative repayments up to the end of 1978
amounted to $12.2 million.

Income and Expenses!

At the end of 1977 MPSF had an accumulated net income
of $468,110, This amount was transferred to ADF during
4978, as reported to the Board of Governors at the Eleventh
Annual Meeting. In 1978 MPSF had a gross Income of
$249,975, expenses of $118,048, a net gain from changes in
the value of currencies of $138,308, and a resultant net Income of $270,325, This net income has been credited to the
Accrued Resources of MPSF in accordance with the
Special Funds Rules and Regulations. .

In 1978 ADF had a gross income of $29.84 million, gross
expenses of $10.20 milllon ang a net gain from changes in
ihe value of currencies of $3.72 million, Net income for 1978
was therefore $23.36 million, bringing accumulated net income to the end of 1978 to $51.94 million.

Arrangements for Lending from ADF

The arrangements for ADF lending were reviewed in
August. An account of this review and ihe conclusions
reached may be found on page 45.

4 Excluding Technical Assistance Special Fund,

INCOME AND EXPENSES AND ACCUMULATED NET INCOME — SPECIAL FUNDS!

(amounts in $ million)

 

 

Gross Income
2. Adminisirative Expenses

3. Income Before Net Galn from Changes
in Value of Currencies

4. Net Gain from Changes in Value of
CGurrencles

Net Income for the Year

Balance of Accumulated Net Income
at Beginning of ihe Year

7. Transfers to ADF

on

8. Balance of Accumulated Net Income
at End of the Year

Excluding Technical Assistance Special Fund.

___MPSF ADF

1977 4978 1977 “41978

0.58 0.25 22.56 29.84
0.19 0.12 3 10.20
0.87 0.13 18,68 19.64
0.10 0.14 1s 37
0.47 0.27 47.30 23.36,
0.29 0.47 11.28 28.58
(28) (0-47) =. =

0.47 0.27 28.58 51.94

|
|Technical! Assistance Special Fund

During 1978, further contributlons to the Technical
Assistance Speclal Fund (TASF) were made by nine countries, as follows:

US$ Equiv.
Country Amount aient’

Australia AS 220,000 251,108
Denmark Dkr 5,000,000 959,709
Japan ¥ $68,000,000 2,918,808
Korea, Republic of US$ 150,000 150,000
Netherlands f. 260,000 426,968
New Zealand NZ$ 375,000 397,755
Norway Nkr. 1,000,000 199,107
Pakistan, PRs, 700,000 70,485
United Kingdom i 300,000 610,352

1 Baserl un Ihe exchanga rates used by the Bank on 31 Oacember 1978,

. TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE SPECIAL’ FUND. gee
2 (US Ooilar, Eqeivaleny : - :

ne : ‘Genidtbitor.- .

The contribution from Norway was untied and the contribution from Japari was substantially untied. The contributions from the Republic of Korea and the Netherlands
were conditionally untied to the procurement of goods
and/or services from the donor country concerned and from
DMCs generally, white ihose from Australia, Denmark, Naw
Zealand, Pakistan and United Kingdom were tled to the procurement of goods and/or services from the donor couniry
concerned. The total amounts of fully, substantially or conditionally untied contributions rapresented 59.7 per cent of
all coniributions made during the year.

As of 31 December 1978, total contributions to the Fund
amounted to $39.8 million, of which $18.3 raillion had been
utilized by the Bank.

“etal”.
~ “Contributions.

. 1,216,906., ae

 

 

ania B{Dec&

 

69Members

THE MEMBERSHIP of itie Republic of Maldives, whose application tor admission was approved by the Board of
Governors in 1977, became effective on 14 February 1978,
bringing the total membership of the Bank to 43 countrles.

Board of Governors

The Eleventh Annual Meating of ihe Board of Governors
was held in Vienna from 24 to 26 April 1978, At that meeting,
the Governor tor Papua New Guinea was elected Chairman
af the Board of Governors, and the Governors for the
Netherlands and Bangladesh were elected Vice-Chairmen,
to hold office until the close of the Twelfth AnnualMeeting,
A list of Governors and Alternate Governors as at the end of
1978, with notations of changes during the year, appears in
Appendix 6.

The resolutions adopted by the Board of Governors In
1978, including those adopted at the Eleventh Annual
Mecting, are listed in Appendix 3.

_ Board of Directors
The Board of Directors hald 53 formal meetings in 1978.
In pursuance of its responsibility for the general direction
and oversight of the Bank’s aclivities, the Board, Inter alia,
during 1978:

— Approved 90 proposals for loans and technical
assistance grants,’ as well as the Introduction of
program lending.

— Approved new operational policy guidelines for
mineral sactor projects in DMCs and reviewed lending prospects in the forasiry sector.

— Reviewed the general financial policies of the Bank
and set new lending rates from 1 January and 1
April.

— Reviewed the investment guidelines of the Bank.

--- Approved borrowings in Deutsche Marks, Swiss
Francs and Japanese Yen, totalling the equivalent
of $320.1 million and the roll-over of $70 million in
Two-Year Bonds.

— Reviewed Bank operations in South Pacific DMCs.

— Reviewed lhe uses of consultants by the Bank and
its borrowars,

4 Excludes fechinical assistance grants approved unuler lhe Presidents
delegation,

    
 

OT project as part of an irrigation
me in Fijl, assisted by the Bank
fough the Fijl Development Bank
co-financed by the Food and
culture Organization.

MEMBERSHIP AND ADMINISTRATION

— Approved arrangaments for cooperation with the
European Economic Community (EEC) under EEC’s
1977 Budget and finalized an agreement for
cooperation with the International Fund tor
Agricultural Development (IFAD) for submission to
the Board of Governors.
— Approved the Administrative Budget for 1979. A list of Directors and Alternate Directors and their
voting groups, as of the end of 1978, with notations of
changes during. the year, appears in Appendix 7,

Audit Committee of the Board

Tha Audit Gemmitiee of the Board was established in
June 1977 by decision of the Board of Directors. It consists
of three Execulive Directors, appointed by the President in
consultation with the Board, normally for a term of two
years. Mr. M. R. Khan (Chalrman), Mr. G. A. Goorey and Mr.
Stanley Fryer were appointed on 4 August 1977 to serve untli 31 May 1979. Mr. E. A. Gestreicher succeeded Mr, Stanley
Fryer in July 1978. Other Directors also frequenily participate in the deliberations of the Committee.

Under its terms of rafarence, the Committee reviews and
reports to the Board of Directors.on the following matters:
(a) selection of oulside auditors; (b) scope of the outside
auditors’ work and raports; (c} audited financial statements
and the outside auditors' aplniens thereon; (d) the outside
auditors’ recommiendations/evaluation of internal controls
in the Bank; and (e) the adequacy and efficiency of inlernal
audit and post evaluation activities.

The Committee tield nine formal meetings and submitted
five reports during 1978

Vice-Presidents

On 7 April 1978, Mr. A. T. Bambawale assumad office as a
Vice-President of the Bank, having served since 21
November 1977 as Special Adviser to the President.

On 2 March 1978, cn the recommendation of the President, the Board of Directors decided that lhe Bank should
have two Vice-Presidents from 1 April 1978 and appointed
Mr. S. Slanley Katz as the second Vice-President. Mr, Katz
assumed office on 1 April 1978, having served since 20
March 1978 as Special Adviser to the President.

Organization

The Bank reorganized Its operational functions with effect from 1 Augus| 1978, with the purpose cf dealing more

7472

 

CONSTRUCTION workers at ihe Urea Fertilizer Projact in Colombo, Sri Lanka. The Project is financed by the Bank and other
co-financiers.

effectively with its expanding activities in line with the projected growth in the volume and scope of the Bank’s lending and technical assistance programs, Its increasing involvement in inter-agency cooperation, and the need for
more attention to be given to expediting the impiementalion and completion of projects. The reorganization was
also intended to provide for more effective policy formulation and raview in the Bank in future.

A Development Policy Office was created to strengthen
the Bank’s capability in policy tormulation and review, and
to Identify new directions and approaches to the Bank’s activities, whlle the Operations Department was redesignatad
the Country Department,

Projects Departments | and |! were reorganized inte three
departments, namely, Agriculture and Rural Development
Department, Infrastructure Deparimenl, and Industry and
Osvelopment Banks Department. Addltionalty, a Central
Projects Services Office was established.

These changes were aimad at increasing the Bank's
capacity to handle new and angolng loan projects and
technical assistance activities, as woll as to give greater aitention to project supervision and loan administration.
They were also designed to provide better sectoral and subsectoral coverage within the three departments

In addition to these changes, the Post-Evaluation Unit,
which had previously been part of the Economic Office,
was converted Into a separate Post-Evaluation Oftice, with

the furiction of carrying out indepandent post-evaiuations
of Bank projects and reporting directly thereon to the President of the Bank,

In Novernber, it was also decided to reorganize the
Bank's administrative functions with effect from 1 January
1979. This reorganization divided the former Administration
Department into the Budget, Personnal and Management
Systems Department and ihe Office of Administrative Ser
vices. This division was dasigned to rationallze and regroup
related administrative activities Into smaller and more effective organizational units with better spans of control,
aimed at providing more etfective support to the operational and other areas of the Bank.

Internal Audit

In 1977, the Olfice of the Internal Auditor (QIA) was
strengthened by re-detining the role, powers and reporting
arrangaments of the internal Auditor, and increasing the
staff of the Office. These changes became fully affective
during 1978.

The principal responsibilities of the OLA are (1} to conduct internal audits to determine whether the accounts and
records of the Bank conform with established policies and
procedures and accounting principles; (2) to evaluale the
atfectlveness of internal accounting, financial and
operating controls; (3} to review the extent of compliance
with established policies and regulations; (4) to determinethal Bank assels are adequately protected and safeguarded; and (5) ta report to Management and departments and
offices Its findings, conclusions and recommendations on
any matter relating to its responsibilities.

On 1 March 1978, the OIA was re-organ!zed Into (a) a
“Regular Audits Section” and (b) a “Special Audits Section”. The regular audits are of ihe “financial audit” type,
wheraas the “Special Audits Section” engages in In-depth
examinations of particular areas and activities of the
Bank’s financial administration in general,

The Internat Audilor has free access to all records and information In the Bank, and reports directly to the President.

Computerization

Consultants engaged to study the Bank's electronic data
processing requirements have identified various Bank activities that are suitable for in-house computerization and
have recommended a plan for the acquisition and installation of necessary equipment and the implementation of
computerized systems.

Following a toview of these recommendations, a Computer Services Unit was established, with responsibility for
consulting with and assisting user-departments and offices on computer applications and other matlers concerning computerization of the Bank’s activities.

Building Safety Survey

Following a detailed safety survey of the existing Headquarters building complex by a team of consultants,
yarlous Measures for the renovation and improvement ot
safety conditions in the bullding were recommended. These
were approved by the Board, and consultants were engayed lo undertake the preparation of detailad design
spacifications and cost estimates, and to recommend a
program of action for their implementation. This work commenced in September 1978.

Office Accommodation

Pursuant to the Second Supplementary Agreament to the
Headquarters Agreement between the Philippine Governtment and the Bank, some office units were transferred to
the building complex of the Central Bank of the Philippines
in July 1978. To accommmedate the continuing growth of
staff, the Bank has rented additional office space in the
vicinity of the Headquarters complex.

Further action on the proposal! to consiruct a new office
building as an Annex to the Headquarters of the Bank was
held in abeyance pending receipt of the report of the consultants regarding renovation of Ihe existing building complex.

Staff

Qn 31 December 1978 the Bank’s staff had reached a
total of 874, from 33 member countries, Of these, 334
belonged to the professional staff category and 540 were
supporting staff. During the year, 66 new protessional staff
were appointed and 36 terminated their employment with
the Bank. The changes in supporting staff consisted of 91
new appointments and 50 resignations.

The annuat review of staff salaries and benefits was conducted In the latter half of the year and the Board of Directors approved a general salary increase of 5.5 per cent for
professional staff and 6 per cent for supporting staff, both
effective from + August. Some changes in staff benefits
were also approved, consisting of a revision in trave! grants

ENGINEERING class in @ university in the Philippines. The
Bank-assisted Engineering Education Project in the country
is aimed at improving the quality of engineering schools
and insuring the future availability of skilled engineering
manpower.

for dependent children being educated oulside the duty
station, an increase In the settlament allowance provided
to new expatriate members to assist them in settling In
Manila, and the introduction of emergency travel provisions
to assist staff to meet travel costs in the event of the death
away from the duty station of a parent or child. The continuation of the rental subsidy scheme for another year was
approved, subject to review before 30 Saptember 1979,

To improve the wage and salary administration of the
supporting staff in future, a program of position classificatlon was initiated during the year and wlil be completed in
1978,

Supplementary Budget for 1978 and Budget for
1979

On 14 December 1978, a Supplementary Budget for Internal Administrative Expenses for 1978 amounting to
$285,000 was appraved by the Board of Directors, mainly to
provide for the costs of the general salary increase and iin
proved benelits approved during the year, as well as axpected cost overruns connected with the Annual Meeting in
Vienna and the additional office accommodation required
by ihe Bank. This revised tha original Budget’ from
$25,957,000 to $26,242,000. Actual administrative expenses
for 1978 totalled $26,213,721, representing 99.9 per cent
utilization of the revised Budget.

The approved Budget for 1979 is summarized in Appendix
2. It provides for Internal Administrative Expenses in 1979
amounting to $32,604,000 representing an increase of 24

per cant on actual expenditures In 1878. This increase is

largely due to the organizational changes instituted in

1 See Budget for 1976 In Annual Report 1977,

 

7374

4978, which envisage the strengthening of staff in certain
areas to be phased in over a two-to-three-year period. It is
also due to greater staff requirements ralated to the new
ditections in which the Bank is expecting to move in future,
such as social infrastructure, mineral development,
forestry and small-scale industries and to the increased
emphasis to be given in such areas as project supervision
and loan administration and post-evaluation. These are in
addition to ihe normal increases in staf required for continued growth in the Bank's loan, technical assistance and
other activities and related business travel and con
sultants' services. The budget increase also takes into account the full-year effect of the salary increases and improved benefits approved in 1978, as well as the general
price increases anticipated in 1979,

It was recognized that with the expected higher level of
administrative expenses, additlonal efforts were necessary
to improve efficiency and exercise economy.

On 14 December 1978, the Board of Directors approved
an increase of $207,800 In Commitments for Services to

Member Countries. This revised the original Budget! for
such Commitments In 1978 from $6,900,000 to $7,107,800,
Actual Commitments approved in 1978 were $7,017,517,
representing 98.7 per cent of ihe revised Budget, while actual disbursements were $3,741,476 {including $2,654,492
financed from the Technical Assistance Special Fund),
representing 78,7 per cent of the Budget amount of
$4,756, 100.

The Board of Directors also approved the 1979 Budget for
Services to Member Countries, consisting of new com:
mitments and disbursements in 1979 amounting to
$7,700,000 and $5,762,000, representing increases of 9.7 per
cent and 54 per cent over actual commitments and
disbursements in 1978, respectively. The disbursements
are 6xpecied to increase substantially in 1979 mainly due
to the Impact of the larger number of projects approved in
1978.

1 See Gudget for 1878 in Annual Report 1977.STATISTICAL ANNEX

10.

Net Flows of Resources to DMCs; 1975-1977

Estimated ‘Rate ot Real Growth, 1976- 1978 and Per Capita GNP ot Selected d DMCs, 1977

Rice (Paddy) F Production in in Selected DMCs: 1975-1978

Wheat and Maize Production in Selacted DMCs: 1975-1978

‘teranenil Tourist Arrivals and Recolpts of Selected DMCs: 1975-1978

Changes in Consumer Prices in Selected DMCs: 1975-1978

Balance of Trade of DMCs: 1975- 1978

International Reserves and Ratio of Reserves to imports of Selected DM DMCs: 1975- 4978

External Public Debt and Debt Service Ratio of Selected DMCs: 1975- 4977

Page

77
78
79
a0
81
82
84

a5

 

Domestic Savings, Capital Formation and Resources Gap as Percentage of GDP
of Selected DMCs: 1975-1977

85

a6: TABLE 4 . a 4 :
JESTIMATED RATE OF REAL.GROWTH, 1976+ 1978 AND PER: CAPITA GNP OF SELECTED: DMs, 4027.

 

je aed : ‘Rate of-Real Growth'(%)
~ Country “+ "49708975 A976 4977
: 2) vs AR) » 3)

 

 

 

panpindest? ; aw 0:8.
Burma® : Bas
hd.
72"

     
 
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
      
    

 

Hong Kong”
india?”
Indonesia
Korea, Rep: of Malaysla
Nepal? |
Pakistan? /
Papua‘New Guinea.
Philippines :
Singapore
Sti kanka

 

 

‘ luring (2), (3)'and 4h: “eae

77TABLE 2
RIGE (PADDY) PRODUCTION IN SELECTED DMCs: 1975-1978!
(Thousand metric tons}

 

 

2 eee

Country 1975 1978 1977 1978 aa7e qaTT 4078?
Bangladesh 16,930 19,143 47,628 49,444 13.4 7.9 10.3
Burma 9,082 9,172 9,489 40,348 1.2 3.5 9.0
China, Rep. of 3,043 3,560 3,476 3,486 17.0 “2.4 0.3
india 73,352 63,052 79,094 79,000 414.0 25.4 04
Indonesia 22,330 23,301 28,347 26,042 43 0.2 11.6
Korea, Rep. of 6,485 7,249 8,340 “8,080 11.8 15.4 a4
Malaysia 1,995 2,023 1,839 1,569 1.4 “4.2 19,6
Nepal 2,605 2,386 2,282 2,400 8.4 “4.4 5.2
Pakistan 3,926 4,106 4,403 4,550 4.6 7.2 3.3
Philippines 5,660 6,160 6,456 6,695 8.8 4.8 68
Sri Lanka ‘ 4,154 4,253 1,706 4,979 8.6 36.2 16.0
Thailand 15,300 15,068 13,210 46,086 15 123 248
Viet Nam, Soo. Rep. of 12,000 10,800 11,250 11,000 “10.0 42 22
Other DMCs . 2,879 3,137 3,139 3,214 9.0 0.4 24
TOTAL 176,721 470,410 185,759 194,078 3.6 9.0 45

 

1 Data refer to the calendar year in whicn the whole harvest oF bulk of harvest lakes place.
2 Preliminary estimates,

Sources: Food and Agriculture Qeganization, January 1979, and couniry sources:TABLE 3
WHEAT AND-MAIZE PRODUCTION JN:SELECTED.DMCs: 1975-1978.

   

pechreces orereneg

 

 

 

    

 

 

  

 

   

(Thousand. metric tons)
f Annual ‘Growth Rate:
‘ Country 1978 1976 1977 19787 . eve Mai
WHEAT .
. Afghanistan 2,936 2,830 BO |
Bangladesh 218 375 86,3° :
a . Burma 56 ad “th 3
: India 26,846 31/328 4 AGT. 08 - B.
i. Korea, Reg. of . 82, 36. “155 ABA SO) 90.0
388 AOL AFI BT 1008
vd 8;690 we 2: ‘ 5
; 445216 %,
MAIZE ° be Rady sae ay
. 800 Bt7
6361 6,347
DE 80380 “>>
FAS ROB
784s Bate
2,767- 2,843
2678 22 ABT
768. TAR.
17,455. 16,675.

 

et Dataseter to the scaterrde year io while ‘be awhoie harvest or bulk ot hawyest takes Place. - .
2: Pratiminacy estimalés.. .

Sources: "Food aia Agriculture Grganization, Noyemper 1976, and county sources. 2

      

 

 

78TABLE 4
INTERNATIONAL TOURIST ARRIVALS AND RECEIPTS OF SELECTED DMCs: 1975-1978

 

 

 

 

Tourist Arrivals’ Tourist Receipts®
Country . _ €000) {$ Million} 
1976 1976 1977 4978° 1975 1976 4977 q97a%
Afghanistan 91.1 91.0 4417.4 90.0 115 30.0 38.0 »* 36.0
Bangladesh 63.8 37.4 45,3 50.0 17 2.4 2.8 3.7
Burma 18.5 18.68 22.1 21.9 4.5 1.6 2.0 19
China, Rep. of 853.1 4,008.7 110.2 4,271.0 359.4 466.1 527.6 600.0
Cook fslands 9.3 9.9 14.6 16.8 2.2 2.3 A2 48
Fijl 161.7 168.7 173.0 484.0 83.8 84.4 87.2 100.0
Hong Kong 4,300.8 1,560.0 1,755.7 2,055.0 602.4 792.8 869.8 1,090.0
India 465.3 534,0 640.4 748.0 124.4 257.1 323.8 402.8
Indonesla 366.5 401.2 486.8 638.9 32.8 40,7 41.3 we
Korea, Rep. of 632.8 834.2 949.7 1,078.3 140.6 275.0 370.0 408.3
Malaysia’ 1,183.0 4,224.8 4,289.0 we 143.2 136.9 160.9 a
Nepal 92.4 405.1 129.3 456.0 8.7 16.2 19.6 27.4
Pakistan 472.0 197.3 220.4 291.0 33.3 40.6 60.5 84.0
Papua New Guinea 18.4 14.5 15.4 11.9 12.2 41.4 41.5 9.1
Philippines 502.2 615.2 730.1 859.4 156.2 235.2 300.8 365.3
Singapore 4,168.3 1,320.6 4,506.7 1,831.7 264.4 282.7 299.6 623.5
Solomon tslands 89 or a 7.4 as 1.8 4,7 16 5
Sri Lanka . 403.2 118.0 453.7 492.0 22.3 28.2 40.0 47.6
Thaliand 4,180.1 4,098.4 1,220.7 4,400.0 219.9 495.6 225.8 296.3
Tonga 52.6 43.6 39.3 66.0 49 45 44 45
Western Samoa 41,7 144 45.6 40.8 46 3.3 40 2.8
TOTAL (Reporting) 8,450.7 9,422.8 9,642.1 10,873.7 2,231.8 2,901.4 3,394.9 3,996.9

 

.. denotes data not available.
+ Reters Io visilars staying at feast 24 hours or making at least one overnight stay in the country visited and the purpose of whose juurney can be classified
under leisure, business, family, mission and meeting, ‘
2 Defined as recetpts of a country In the form of consumption expenditure, |, ¢, paymonis for goods and servines made by loraign tourists out of fareign
resources,
3 Praliminary estimatus:.
4 Penlnsufar only, Excluding Singaporeans who carne by road vie Jolie Causeway,

Sources! World Tourlsm Organization aed country sources.rR RNR TE Rate arte Nite puma ta eneimmrioesne toe ne

 

 

OEE

TABLES

CHANGES IN CONSUMER:PRICES IN SELECTED’ DMCs: 1975-1976! .

 

 

 

 

J Be

: Soure’s: :

‘weights:

Unless inetd ‘indicated, datateater to orsign in consumer: sot es in <avit city ‘sf the.DMC.

Preliminary estimates.

Data Teter to whole country. or average of all cities. ©
3 piroportional to GNP: hi .U.S, dollars i 4978, =~

 

2 AO

_tnlernational “Monelaty'Fund and country sources.

 

(Per cent)

Country + 1975 : 1976 1977 2. 4978?
Afghanistan 10.0 18 ‘GP Oe iy ot 9.4
Bangladesh 24.2 98 "10.4 co 435
‘Burma 31.8 : Bg
‘China, ‘Rep. off 5.2

, Cook Islands 15.6
Fiji? 13.4
Gilbert Islands 9.4

_ Hong Kong — 05
India* 5.6
Indonesia - 19:0

’-Korea, ‘Rep. of 26.3

' Malaysia 48
Nepal 11.2

, Pakistan? 20.9
“Papua. New Gulnea : * 40.2

‘Philippines . 84

* Singapare 26.
Soloman islands 10.40:
Sri Lanka ‘8.7

, Thailand, 2 at
Tonga’ 104. -Western Samoa? 8B eS

Weighted Average (Excl: India)* AOR 8 *

Weighted-Average'(tincl. India)‘.

  
  

 

BtTABLE 6
BALANCE OF TRADE OF DMCs: 1975-1978

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

{§ Million)
Exports (f.0.b.}
Country 1975 1978 1977
MORE INDUSTRIALIZED DMCs
China, Republic of §,302 8,158 9,348
Hong Kang 6,039 BA74 9,617
Korea, Republic of 5,081 7,715 "410,047
Singapore 5,678 6,691 8,406
Sub-Total 6 22,106 31,036 37,418
OTHER DMCs
Afghanistan 217 291 306
Bangladesh 307 401 476
Burma 171 241 226
Cook Islands 3 3 3
Fiji 473 136 178
Gilbert islands 36 22 20
Indonesia 5,029 6,479 7,933
Lao People’s Democratic Republic 2 6 z
Malaysia 3,834 5,295 6,081
Maldives 1 1 2
Nepal 99 99 81
Pakistan 1,049 1,163 4,471
Papua New Guinea . 476 592 722
Philippines - 2,294 . 2,574 3,181
Solomon islands 15 24 33
Sri Lanka . 566 570 754
Thailand 2,208 2,980 3,490
Jonga z * 4 7
Viet Nam, Socialist Republic of 203 288 446
Western Samoa 7 7 16
Sub-Total 16,694 21,176 25,162
India 4,365 5,369 "5,989
Total 43,149 57,581 68,509
... denotes data fel avallable.

1 Preliminary estimates.

Sources’ IMF, lnlemiatlonal Financial Statistics, February 1978, and country sources,.
i
i

5
i¢

   
   
    
 
   

1976

7,609
8,828
8,774
9,070

34,284

Imports {c.1:f.)

1977

8,522.

10,446
10,811
40,471

40,250

‘Balance of Trade

 

 

   
 

“228%

1978! 4975 1976 4977
11,022 688 847°. B26
19,459 “787 35a 829
14,972 2,193 4089 | 84
412,968 12,485 2,878 2,068
52,421 63043 13245 2,892
80
539 (TAS
a7 “282
SO ta:

128°

 

 

1978"

1,683
-1,952
2,264
-2,906

-5,430

68.
-749
65
14
13884

_ INTERNATIGNAL RESERVES AND RATIO OF RESERVES TO IMPORTS OF SELECTED DMCs: 1975-1978

TABLE?

international Reserves"

 

 

Ratio to imports?

 

 

{3 Million) . (Months)

Country 1975 1978 1977 1978 1975 1976 1977 1978
Afghanistan 124.7 168.8 315.8 433.8 6.5 7.8 11.6 43.7
Bangladesh 448.3 288.9 235.0 316.4 4.2 3.7 24 26
Burma 141.0 126.4 412.9 407.1 10.0 7.8 44 4.2
China, Rep. of 1,169.0 1,607.0 1,447,0 1,515.0 2.4 2.6 2.0 1.6
Fiji 148.6 116.3 147.4 143.8 6.8 5.3 5.8 4g
Gilbert Islands 41.2 42.9 55.0 72.5 41.2 42.9 60.0 58.8
India 1,373.0 9,074.0 6,184.0 6,582.0 2.7 6.8 10.3 10.7
Indonesia 586.0 1,499.0 2,516.0 2,636.0 1.5 3.5 5.6 5.2
Korea, Rep. of 1,550.4 2,960.5 4,306.8 4,937.4 2.6 40 48 4.0
Lao People’s ,

Democratic Republic 9.4 12.0 6.9 19.2 2.7 3.1 1.2 ex
Malaysia 1,524.0 2,472.0 2,858.0 3,330.0 54 7 7.6 6.7
Nepal 104.1 134.6 147.9 154.0 WA 9.9 10.5 8.2
Pakistan 406.0 632.0 518.0 486.0 2.3 3.0 2.5 1.8
Papua New Gulnea 179.7 257.2 431.4 432.2 3.8 5.8 77 7.8
Phillppines 4,358.0 1,640.0 1,624.0 1,832.0 4.3 6.0 4.3 44
Singapore 3,006.6 3,363.8 3,887.7 5,269.2 44 4.5 44 4.9
Sri Lanka 58.0 92.0 292.0 398,0 0.9 1.9 5.0 51
Thailand 1,776.0 1,893.0 1,915.0 2,120.0 6.5 6.4 5.0 48
Tonga 11.6 42.0 9.8 7.4 7.0 9.0 Ba 3.4
Wesiern Samoa 6.4 6.2 9.1 3.4 2.1 24 2.6 0.8

TOTAL 20,287.6 25,888.7 30,794.8 3.4 AT

... denotes data nat avallabie.

13,717.7

4.8 6.0

 

4 Gold + SDAs + Reserve position in IMF + Foreign exchange holdings; yuar-end figures unless otherwise specified,
2 Isnparts cif. from trade statisiles are used [or computing the ratlo.

Sources: IMF, International Financial Statistics, Marsh 1978, end country sources.; TABLE 8 : Yas
SSERVICE ‘RATIO OF: ‘SELECTED ‘MGs: 1978: 1977
($° ay mae

  

EXTERNAL PUBLIC DEBT AND! DEB

  

i Bait Outstanding’
“ ‘1978, . 4976 od. 4877

 

 

   
  

  
   
  
 

ighanistan* ‘

     
 
 
   
 
  
  
 
 
   
 
  
  
   
 
 
   

  

  
  

  
 
 

  
  

  

  

  

  
 

— 1058.6 i
angiadesh 2,292.0 - 66.0
ae 499.5 32.2
2,612.2 471.40
79.4 74:
163.5 9.4
_ 14;570.0 849.0
» 41,408.7 1,299.4 — 8472.3. 1,153.7
2,053.0 442.4
705 2.2
6,761.5 315:5
837.7 277 :
2,985.1 267.2 B:
994.0 B16. 08
787.0. 424.0 14.68
1,050.6: 126.5 3:0

  

25.2. 19°

 

§,315.0FABLE 10
NET FLOWS OF RESOURCES TO DMCs:1975-1977

 

 

 

 

 

($ Million)
Net Flows From Net Official Flows
Country _ Multllateral Agencies From DAC Countrles

1975 1976 1977 1975 1976 1977

Afghanistan : 21.0 . 29,1 47.3 23.6 32.8 27.8
Bangladesh 308.4 201.4 199.8 704.3 324.4 384.3
Burma 26.6 30.6 45.0 27.8 37.9 54.2
Cambodia 23 ‘ 0.2 od 79.7 0.6 0.3
China, Rep. of 29 13.0 1B.4 134.8 81.6 . 98.4
Cook Islands 0.2 0.4 0.2 5.4 6.6 8.2
Fiji 8.3 8,0 78 18.9 23,8 21.6
Gilbert tslands 0.1 0.3 0.2 5.6 3.8 6.1
Hong Kong 4.3 16 21 19,9 9.5 0.4
India 669.2 606.8 500.6 787.0 681.7 434.2
Indonesia 224.0 312.9 290.3 600.2 748.6 $16.1
Korea, Rep. of 330.5 416.0 293.1 433.3 324.5 311.4
Lao People's Dem. Rep. 6.3 4.4 3.4 32.6 24.0 26.7
Malaysia 68.8 81.7 98.6 92.2 68.6 92.3
Maldives . 1.0 0.9 08 2.2 4.8 1.5
Nepal 16.9 20,7 36.7 28.6 29,2 37.4
Pakistan 140.0 162.0 188.6 329,93 371.1 B3t.2
Papua New Guinea 20.6 13.3 16.3 297.5 220.9 227.0
Philippines 140.2 W437 449.0 162.7 236.5 200.8
Singapore 22.9 9.3 07 26.8 25.4 7.3
Solomon Jslands 0.7 1.0 0.8 21.6 18.9 16.1
Srl Lanka 54.2 40.1 52.8 94.2 89.2 113.8
Thailand 85.5 90.3 122.7 73.8 64.5 129.4
Tonga 0.5 4.4 1.8 29 3.6 49
Viet Nam, Soc. Rep. of 30.5 18.6 478 279.9 162.2 200.5
Western Samoa 46 4.4 7.8 38 7.3 12.4
TOTAL 2,187.5 2,186.3 2,161.95 4,290.0 3,598.9 3,268.0UNG! Private:Flows . :
from DAC-Countries ‘OPEC “Assistance

AQT? “4975 ORB. 1977 4975
a eet a ae cote
O2 °° 9. 2U6 WAT, 215 FOB
3.60. {645 ote | 185.0 :
5:8 . oa ee —
O05 om
43.4

  
   
   

   
          
    

388APPENDIXES

 

 

Page
1. Financial Statements and Opinions of Independent ueiitaes oe gg
2. Summary of Budget for 1979 7 134
3. ‘Resoiniians of Board of Governors during 1978 133
4. Channels of Communication a a 134
5. Official Depositories _ 136
6. Board of Governors — oo —4gB
7. Board of Dirsctors. and Voting Groups 142
8... Principal Officers . 443

89APPENDIX 1

FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND OPINIONS OF INDEPENDENT AUDITORS

ORDINARY CAPITAL RESOURCES ‘
ted Balance Sheat, 31 Mecamber 1978 aud 31 December 1977

1-0 Statement of Income and Expenses for the Years Ended 31 December 1978 and
3) December 1977

1-H Statement of Changes in Financial Position for the Years Ended 31 December 1978 and
31 December 1977

1-1V Statement of Cash in Ranks and Dermand Obligations of Members, 31 December 1978
icv Summary Statement of Loans, OY Decernber 1978
1-Vi Suromary Statement of Borrowings, 31 Gecember 1973 and 31 December 1977
1- VI Staternant of Subscriptions to Capital Stock and Voting Power, 31 December 1978
1- VIII Notes to Financial Statements, 31 Docember 1978 and 31 Deceniher 1977
Opinion of Independent Auditors
SPECIAL. FUNOS RESOURCES
1-A Balance Sheet, 31 December 1978 and 31 December 1977

1-B Statemant_of Income and Expenses and Accumulated Net Income (Expense) for the
Years Ended 31 December 1978 and 31 December 1977

1-C¢ Statement of Changes in Financial Pusition for the Years Ender! 31 December 1978
and 31 December 1977

i- 0 Statemoril uf Contributed Mesources, 31 December 1978

1-E Statement of Accrued Resources for the Years Ended 31 Dacember 1978 and
31 December 1977

1-F Technical Assistance Special Fund Balance Sheet, 81 December 1978

1-G Technical Assistance Special Fund Summary Statement of Expanses for the Year Ended
31 December 1978

1-H Multi-Purpose Special Fund Balance Sheet, 31 December 1978
4-t Notas to Financial Staternenis, 1 December 1878 and 31 December 1977
Opinion of Independent Aucitors

ASIAN DFVYELOPMENT FUND

1-4 Balance Sheet, 31 Occember 19/8 snd 31 Decemner 1977

1-2 Statement of income and Expenses and Accumulated Net Income for the Years Ended
31 December 1976 and 31 December 1977

4.3 Staternent ot Changes in Financial Posilion for the Years Ended 31 Pacember 1978
and 31 December 1977

1-4 Summary Statement of Loans, 31 December 1976

1-6 Statement of Resources, 31 Occember 1978

1-6 Notes to Financial Statements, 31 December 1978 and 31 December 1977

Opinion of Independent Auditors

192

ASIAN DEVELOPMENT BAN

  
  
  

BALA
31 December :

Expressed in Thousar

 

ASSETS

 

 

CASH IN BANKS (See Appendix 1-1) {Note 8)

INVESTMENTS (Note B}
Government and government guaranteed obligations —
amortized cost which approximates market (Face
amounts $416,498 ~ 1978, $344,675 — 1977) $ 412596
Time deposits and certificates of deposit 805,922

 

LOANS (Sae Appendix 1-V1 (Nate A)
j.oans approved - $3,859,013 — 1978.
$3,080,283 ~ 1977
Effective ioans
Held by Bank 3,172 837
Agreed to be sald 1 809

 

ACCRUED INCOME
» On investments 39,635
On leans 32,686

AMOUNTS RECEIVABLE FROM MEMBERS
Non-negotiable, non-interest-bearing demand obligations
({Sce Appandix t-IV) (Notes B and C) 279,319
Amounts requirod to maintain value of currancy
holdings (Note D) . : 3,836
Subscription instalments (Note C} 361

OTHER ASSCTS
Notional amounts required to maintain value of
currency haldings {Note 68.139
Administration Charga receivable from Special Funds
(Note d) 5.864
Unamortized issuance costs of borrowings (Note A} 13,595
Miscelluncous 5,028

SPECIAL RESERVE FUND ASSETS (Note E)

TOTAL

 

57,023

1,218,618

3,174,746

72324

283,516

92,626

42 482

$4 941 232,

1972

_$ 59,014

$ 339,346
668,182 1 008 528

 

2,521,403
3,209 7,524,612

 

31,954
23,680 55,644

 

287,786

8,991
253 267 029

 

4.408
9,190
» 868 19,466 |

28,764

 

$3,963,547

 

The accompanyirig notes to financial statements (Appendix 1-V1i)} are an integral part of this statement.TOTAL

LIABILITIES, CAPITAL AND RESERVES

APPENDIX 1-1

 

 

 

1978
UNDISBURSED BALANCE OF EFFECTIVE LOANS
(See Appandlx 1-V)
Held by Bank $1,560,062
Agreed to be sold 1,809 $1,571 861
BORROWINGS
Principal arnounts outstanding (See Appendix 1-V1) 1 603,900
Less ~ net unamortized discounts and premiums
(Note A) 1 B84 1,608,016
ACCRUED INTEREST ON BORROWINGS 46,258
AMOUNTS PAYABLE TO MEMBERS
Amounts required to meintain value of currency
boldings (Note D)} 4,609
ACCOUNTS PAYABLE AND OTHER LiABILITIES
Notional amounts required to maintain value of
currency holdings (Note I} 21923
Miscellaneous 27,732
CAPITAL AND RESERVES
Capital Stuck (See Appendix 1-V1h) (Note C}
Authorizad (SDR 7,220,570 — 1978,
US doblars of 1866 $7,220,570 — 1977}
Subscrined (SOR 6,709,260 ~ 1978,
US dollars of 1966 $5,770,250 — 1977) 8,740,757
Less -- ’’callable’' stiares subscribed
{SDR $362,860 — 1978,
US dallsrs of 1986 $4,518,730 — 1977} 6,986,603
"Paid-in'’ shares subscribed TT
(SDB 1,346 460 ~ 1978,
US dollars of 1966 $1,251,520 — 1977} 1,754,154
Less — subscription instalments nut due
(SOR 28447 — 1978,
US dollars of 1966 $324 466 — 1977} 370,/04
Subscription instalments matured TT
{SDR 1,061,912 1978,
US dollars of 1966 $927,054 — 1977] 1,383,45y
Less — capital set aside and transferred to
Special Funds (Note F) (SDR 47,670 —
1978, US dollars af 1966 $47,610 . 1977) 62,025
1,321.425
Advance payments on subscriptions (Note C) 15,695
Ordinary Reserve (Note G} 196,/55
Special Reserve (Note E} 42,482
Net income after appropriation of commissians
10 Special Reserve iNote G
For the years ended 31 December 1978 and
31 December 1977 . 106,399 1 682,756

$1,321,979
3,209

1,204,756

1,661

2,727

6,960,941

5,451,170

1,509,771

391,419

1,118 362

5? ABA

1,060,978

51,313
442,157
28,754

72,361

 

$1,325,188

1 203,095
35,322

41,722

2,727

1 355,493

 

$4,941 232

$3,963,547

 

93APPENDIX 4-14

ASIAN DEVELOPMENT BANK — ORDINARY CAPITAL RESOURCES

STATEMENT OF INCOME AND EXPENSES
For the Years Ended 3% December 1978 and 31 December 1977

Expressed in) Thousands of United States Dollars (Note A}

A A

 

1978 1977
INCOME
$96,037 : $ 86.512

From investments

From loan operations
Interest 94,402 65 987

Commissions 13,728 10,083

 

Commitment charge 8,279 5,238
From other sources . 723 787
GROSS INCOME 215,175 168.617
EXPENSES
Administrative expenses
Board of Governors 360 z 62

Board of Directors

 

 

Salarias 936 860
Benefits {Note H} 333 320
Business travel . 759 144
Relocation 486 232
Staff services 145 158
“Lota Board af Directors 1,758 1,681
Staff
Salaries a 41,143 9792
Banafits (Note Hi 4,708 ‘ 4,075
Relocation 994 Bag
Consultants 225 378
Totai stuff 17,070 14,730
Business travel und rcprasentation
Business travel 1 891 4,507
Representation 48 43
Total businas¢ travel anid representatian 1939 1,550
Other administrative expenses *
Communications . 722 573
. Office occupancy 1402 1,214
~ Library 107 95
Expendahle supplies 216 249
Office equipment 704 231
Contractual services 716 616
Insurance 90 52
Miscellaneous 91 8?

Special activity 19

Total other adrninistrative expanses

 

Tote! acininistrative expenses (Forward)

 

 

94APPENDIX 1-i1

   
  
  
   
   
  
 
   
  
 
 
   
   
  
   
 
  

1978 1977

Total adeninistrative expenses (Forward) $ 24832 “$ 21,144
Deduct Administration Charge (Note J} 10,308 7,090
Neat administrative expenses 14,624 14,054

Services to member countries (Note K)
Project preparation and other loan
related technical assistance 891 369
Project implementation/advisory 8 23
Regional activities 188 788
Tatal services ta member countries , 1,087

 

   

Financial experisos

 

Interest on borrowings — 109,248 8B B85
Other financial expenses {Note A) 2 381 2,000
Total tinancial expenses 141,629 90,885
GROSS EXPENSES 127 240 106,109

INCOME BEFORE NET GAIN FROM CHANGES IN VALUE
OF CURRENCIES 85,935 62,508

NET GAIN FROM CHANGES IN VALUE OF CURRENCIES —
vesulting primarily from translation of
currency holdings in excess ot maintenance

of value ceilings (Notes A arid 0} 34,192 ° 19,936
NET INCOME 120,127 82,444
APPROPRIATION OF COMMISSIONS TO SPECIAL RESERVE (Note £) : (13,728) (10,083)

NET INCOME AFTER APPROPRIATION OF COMMISSIONS TO SPECIAL
RESERVE (Note G) $106 399 $ 72.351

 

 

The accompanying notes ta financial statements (Appendix 1-Vill) are an integral par! of this statement.96

ASIAN DEVELOPMENT BANK — ORDINARY CAPITAL RESOURCES

STATEMENT OF CHANGES IN FINANCIAL POSITION
For the Years Ended 31 December 1978 and 31 December 1977

Expressed in Thousands of United States Dollars (Note A)

APPENDIX 1-111

 

 

   

 

1978
FUNDS WERE PROVIDED BY
Operations
Net incorne $ 120,127
lterns not requiring or providing funds:
Accrued interest and other expenses 11,220
Accrued income including capitalized
interest and commitmerrt charges on loans (34,437)
Administration Charge (10,308)
Commissions (transferred to Special Reserve Fund
Assets) ! {13,728}
Other — net 2,061
Funds provided by operations 74944
Incroage in undisbursed balance of effective loans 559,350
Rorrowings . 360,502
Increase in borrowings as a result of currency
revaluations 195 552
Capital subscriplions 126988 ,
Increase in matured capital subscriptions due to
substitution of the SOR for the 1966 doliar as unit of value 102,384
Demand obligations of members encashed 40,171
Loans collected 70542
Loans sold 4,300
Administration Charge collected 8852
Total 1,830,585
FUNDS WERE UTILIZED FOR
(ncrease in effective loans $59,350
Loans disbursed 277,219
Increase in toans disbursad and outstanding as a
resutt of currency revaluations 180,323
Demand obligations of members racelved 55,046
Bonds purchased for redemption anc borrowings redeemed 140.910
Increase in other assets as u result of
* currency revaluations 11,052
Net charge to Ordinary Resarve due to substitulion of
the SDR for the 1966 dollar as unit of value 17,753
Inorease In capital set aside and transferred to
Special Funds due to substitution of tte SOR for
the 1946 doilar as unit of value 4p9i
Net maintenance of value adjustments :
Regular 27 745
Notional A6 216
Other ~ nel _ 2,881
Total 7,323,086
INCREASE IN CASH IN BANKS AND INVESTMENTS $ 207 ,Aa9
INCREASE (DECHEASE} IN COMPONENTS OF FUNDS?
Cash in banks $ (2491)
Investenents 209,980
i RR A AT
YOTAI § 207,499

Onn Or

The accampanying notes to Tinanclal stalements (Appendix 1-VtIS) are an integral part of thls statement.
1 Special Reserve Funds are not cansidered as a part of funds.

1977

$ 82,444
5041

(22 956)
(7 090}

{10,093}
1832

 

49,878

452,010
112,249

101,022
92832

63,697
46,831

 

2

 

924,571

452,010
258,305

97 548
39,935
92 588

4659

(38,317)

5,153

911,971

§ 12,600

$ 10,602
1998

$ 12,600APPENDIX 1-1V
ASIAN DEVELOPMENT BANK — ORDINARY CAPITAL RESOURCES

STATEMENT OF ‘CASH IN BANKS AND DEMAND OBLIGATIONS OF MEMBERS
31 December 1978

Expressed in Thousands of United States Dollars (Note A)

 

 

Non-Negotiable
Members Unit of Currency Cash in Benks Non-interest-Bearing
Dernand Obligations

 

Sen nner

 

Afghanistan Afghani 8 $ 2.4064
Australia Austratian dollar 949 11,344
Austria Austrian schilling 173 -_
Bangladesh Bangladesh taka 8 8,294
Belgium Belgian france 404 382
Burma Kyat 14301 3,809)
Cambodia Biel 47) 172
Canada Canadian doltar 56 14,443
China, Republic of New Taiwan dollar 190 9,254
Cook islands Naw Zealand doifar 15! _
Denmark Danish krone 454 759
Fiji Fiji dollar 14 804?
Finland Finnish markka 206 128
France French franc 26 * $805
Germany, Federal Republic of Deutsche mark 126 4519
Gilbert Islands Australian dollar 4 rat
Heng Kang Hong Kong dollar 572 1273
India Indian rupee 10 53,818!
Indonesia Rupiah 28,282) 2,255!
haly Italian lira 34 ~
Japan Yen 1,687 31,083
Korea, Republic of Wor 6731! 38,0754
Laos Libaration kip 1074 14}
Malaysia Malaysian ringgit 94 24,731)
Maldives Maldivian rupee q21 age
Nepat Nepalese rupes Zz 71,3602
Netherlands Netherlands guilder 821 1,707
New Zoatand New Zealand dollar 83? 10,848
‘Norway Norwegian krone 60 769
Pakistan Pakistan rupee 4533+ 13/8881
Ranua New Guinea Kina 91 7ait
Philippines Philippine peso 6g0 8,828!
Singapore Singapore dollar 35 2,639!
Solomon Islands Solomon Islands dal lar 3 42)
Sri Lanka Sri Lanka rupee 21 4,331
Sweden Swedish krona 35 =
Switzerland Swiss france 198 ~
Thailand Baht 6 11,4024
Tonga Tongan dollar 303 ~
United Kingdom Pound sterling 1,353 4,267
United States United States dollar 2418 10,075
Viet Narn Rong 61873 =
Western Samoa Western Samoan tale ni 52
Total Members 56,872 279,319
Non-Members
* Kuwait Kuwaiti dinar 35 .
Luxembourg Luxembourg franc 42 —_
Saudi Arabia Saudi Arabian riyal 7A Total Non-Members 151 =

RN A

TOTAL

$57,023

$279,319

rn
‘The accompanying notes to financial statements (Appendix 1-Vi \1} are an Integral part of this statement.
1 Restrictions on tse may bo Imposed by members {Note 8).

2 Restrictions on use hava heen imposed for $58 of these amounts.

3 Restrictions on use have been imposed by membars (Note B),

9798

   

Exprossedl in Thousand:

 

 

Payments Recaiyad

 

 

 

Loans Refundings —Burrower/Guarantor 2 Principal Not Yat and On Loaris Held For Loans
Amount Effective Cancellations by Bank Seld
i

Bangludesh § 11,400 g = $ 127 $ 1,502 $
Burme 6,600 ~ - - China, Republic of 100,330 - § 252 26,164 2,800
Fifi 22,800 16.200 112 627 =
Hong Kong 31500 ; = 4,500 6375 1,950
(Indonesia 573,980 90,010 15,342 562 =
Korea, Republics of $33,700 190000 16,914 62,911 3.456
Malaysia 426 998 93,140 9,622 15,742 2,140
Nepal 2,000 _ — 947 =
Pakistan 423,070 95,100 29,634 13,612 ~
Paoue New Guineu 17,700 ~ - - =
Philippines 701 350 87,000 261 1/7 ASB 423
Singapore 443,980 19,009 26,139 16,234 2,830
Sri Lanka 14,136 = 793 3,983 ~
Thailand 495 380 143 080 18,661 17 479 1 7tl
Viet Nuri 3,930 - 2,389 25 Adjustmants in United States

dollar equivalents of loans

disbursed

lotel $3,809,013 $638 530 $133,645 $183,711 $15,310

 

 

 

 

The accumpanying notes to financlal statements (Appendix 1-VI1i) ure an integral part ot this statement.
1 Loans other than those made dircctly to a member or to its central bank have been guaranteed by the memiher.
2 This aroun! repraseats adjustments in United States dollar equivalents, arising from ihe changes in the axchange rates
used for transiation of currencies disbursed and outstanding on loans, and repayable to the Bank In such currencias.APPENDIX 1-V

ORDINARY CAPITAL RESOURCES

OF LOANS
978

nited States Dollars (Note A)

 

Undisbursed Balance of

 

 

 

 

 

Cftective Loans Fffective Loans Outstanding Balance
Hald Agreed Hod ‘Agreed On Loans Held «For Loans
by Bank to be Sald by Bank to be Suld by Bank Sold
$ 9,681 $ - $ 3 ABZ $ — $ 6219 $ 8.600 - 1,291 “ 5,308 a
82,174 = - 2 62,174 ss
5,961 = = oo 5,961 ee
66,766 4,908 49 390 1,909 17,376 00
488,066 426,176 o 41 890 650,420 H 281,013 ms 399,407 187
306,454 - 120,872 = 485,582 1.074
1,053 - = 1,083 i
284,724 os _ 122,404 ~ 162,230 ~
17,700 as 18,142 : 2,558 =
601,208 = 418 559 2 182,640 50
W927? 22,834 ~ 56.943 9,359 = 2a7 = 9,112
314,449 - 497,022 = 177 427 443
1516 ~ 1 4b0 ¢ 66 =
286,928? 236,929"
$3,172,837 $1,809 $1,569,052 $1,909 $1 602,885 $2,654ASIAN DEVELOPMENT BAN

   
 
 

2%

SUMMARY STATEMENE
31 December 1978

Expressed in Thousand

Changes During the Year Ended 31 December 1978

 

 

 

 

 

Principal .
Currencies Payaltte Outstanding at 4 ss iat
31 December 1977 . Repayments and Sinking Fund ranslation
Borrowings and Other Purchases Adjustments
Austrian schillings $ 920 § = $ 1,876 ¢ +209
Belgian franes 10,485 = gi? 1 A33
Deulscha mark 205,126 49,146 780 39,225
{ralian fire 11,270. ~ A210 834
Japanese yen 280,831 138,151 85663. ‘ 84,975
Kuwait! dinars 17,861 i ws 528
Luxembourg francs 11,339 ~ 1,084 ~ 1,531
Netherlands guilders 68,684 - = | 15,587
Saudi Arabian riyals 14,388 = = 648
Swiss trancs 129 826 93,205 - 49 581
United States doliars 415,626 . 70,000 _ 50,600 =
Principal outstanding
at face value 1,204,756 350,502 140,910 195 552
Less; Net unamortized
discounts and premiums 1,661 223 - 2
Total $350 279 $140,910 $195 552

 

 

 

 

MATURITIES OF

Twelve Months
Ending 31 December

1978
1979
1980
1984
1982
|g83

Five Years
Ending 31 Decernber
1984-1988/1983-1987
49B9-1993/1988-1992
1994.1988/1993-1997

Total

The accompanying notes to tinancial statements (Appendix 1-V11i) are an Integral part of this statement.
1 The weighted average effective interest ratos are computes on the principal outstanding amounts, taking into consideration
discounts and pramiums. For unHormity and consistency, annual effective interest fates for bands with annual payment dates
have been converted Into semi-annual equivalents,
2 Subsequent to 31 December 1978, the Bank has cnlered inte an agreament for a public Issue in Switzerland of 342%, ]b-Year
Swiss France Sonds In the principal amount of SwF 100,000,000. Also, the Bank plans, by exercise of Its opt lon, to raseem in full
the outstanding principal amounling to SWF 31,850,000 of a 7%, L5-year Swiss franc bond issue maturing In 1986,

100APPENDIX 1-VI
RDINARY CAPITAL RESOURCES

F BORROWINGS

31 December 1977

nited States Dollars (Note A)

 

 

Py incipal Weighted Average Effective interest Rates! Due for
Outstanding al Sa aAnRESEEEERRRieememmeeneeeeeeeee eee Redemption
31 December 1978 1978 1977

$ 8,753 7.28% 7.28% 1979-1983
1,114 7.36 7.36 1979-1983
284,247 7.27 7.69 1979-1988
10,894 7.22 7.22 1979-1987
41B,294 7 AG 8.05 1979-1993
18,379 7.50 7.50 1978-1984
11,808 6.64 6.64 4979-1987
114,271 842 8.42 1981-1984
15,037 8.00 8.00 1980-1983
272,612" 6.09 7.22 1979-1993

435 526 8.02 7.38 1979-1996

1,608,900 7.39 7.86
1 884

 

1978 1877
$ € 95,190
21,328 92,193
205 263 129,755
214,758 201 027
215,776 182,039

174,188 
558 528 404 568
135,659 84,484
14,500 15,500
$1,609 900 $1,204,756

107182

 

SUBSCRIBED

STATEMENT OF SUBSCRIPTIONS Tg

3

ASIAN DEVELOPMENT BANK.

1 Decembg

Expressed in Thousands of United States Dollars (Note

 

PAR VALUE OF CALLABLE SHARE

 

 

 

 

 

“Par Cent” "Rep Value Expressed in Subject to Call Expressed in
Shares of Total SDR Collars SDR Collars
REGIONAL
Algbunistan 1,195 0.178 SDA 11,980 $ 15,568 SOR 8,130 $ . 1059
Australia 49 93/ 7.443 499 370 650,574 AQ2 BBO 524.007 |
Bangladesh a R12 1.313 88,120 114,802 71,060 92576"
Burma 4,700 0.701 47 G00 §1,231 37,900 49,376"
Cambodia! 875 0.130 8,790 41,400 5,950
China, Rapublic of 9g Aon 1.401 84,000 122 ABZ 75 800
Cook Islands? 10 0.001 106 130 70
Fiji Sy? 0.087 5870 7 647 4,730
Gilbert Islands? 1S 0.002 150 195 100
Houg Kong 4,700 0.701 47,000 64,231 37 900
India 64,637 8.144 $46,370 711,805 440,580
Indonesia 47 ,Q00 7.008 470,000 612,311 378 600
Japan 117,500 17.613 1,175,000 4,530,778 947,500
Korey, Republic of 43,475 6.480 434,750 566 388 360,580
Laos 246 0.037 2,460 3,205 1,980
Malaysia 23,500 3.603 235 O00 306,166 189 500
Maldives 35 0.005 350 456 . 280
Nepal 1,269 0.189 12,680 16,532 10,230
New Zealand 13,254 1975 132,540 172, 672 “106 880
Pakistan 18 B00 2.802 788,0N0 244 926 451,600
Pabuu New Guinea 810 0.121 8,100 10 553 6540
Philippines 20,562 3.065 205 620 267 B86 166,810
Singapore 2937 0.438 29,370 38,263 23,680
Solomon Islands 58 9.009 580 785 470
Sri Lanka 5,005 746 50,05U 65,206 40 60
Thailand 11,780 4,751 117 500 153,078 94,750
longa 35 0.005 360 456 280
Viet Nam 7 O80 1.051 70500 91 B47 56 850
Westarn Samoa" 25 0.004 250 326 170
‘Total! Regional 448,179 66.800 4,A81,790 5 $38,831 3,631,360
_ en
NON-REGIONAL
Austria 2937 0.438 29,370 38,263 23,680
Belgium 1,250 0.186 12,500 16,285 8500
Canada 45,143 8.428 451,430 588,118 364,030
Denmark 2937 O.A3B 29,370 38,263 24,680
Finland J,t28 0.175 11,790 15 308 & 580
France 14,687 2.189 1AE B70 191,341 118 A30
Germany, Fad. Rep. ot 37,334 5.585. 373,340 486 383 307,050
Italy? 5,000 0.745 50,000 65,140 34,000
Netherlands 6 462 0.963 64,620 84.186 £2,110
Norway 2,937 0.438 29 370 38,263 23,680
Swecan {176 0.175 41,780 15,308 8,580
Swilzerland 4,037 0.602 40,370 52,894 32,550
United Kingdon 17 625 ? 627 176,250 228,817 142,130
United States* 40,048 11.9431 800 480 1,042 857 610,440
Total Non-Regiana! 222,747 33.200 2,227,470 2,001 926 1,761 A40
TOTAL 670,926 100.000 §=$DH 6,709,260 $8,740,707 5DR»5,362 800

The accompanying notes to flnanclal statomen!s
4 As of 3] Oscember 1976, these members have not yet subseri
stock authorized by Resolution No. 104 of the Board of Governors. Such additional shares Gould be up te 135 per cent

 

 

 

member's existing subscribed shares.

 

 

 

 

 

(Appendix 1-V114) are on integral part of this statement,
ocd ta the additional shares undar the second general Incraase

 

 

ofeach suchvh DINARY CAPITAL RESOURCES APPENDIX 1-Vil

<APITAL STOCK AND VOTING POWER
4978

din Thousands of Special Drawing Rights

 

 

 

PAR VALUE OF PAL

 

IN SHARES VOTING POWER

   

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

‘Subscriptions Nol Due Expressed in iments Matured Expressed in” Number Per Cont Per Cent of
SDR Dollars SOR Dollars vf Votes of Total Regionat/Non-Regional
- g - 8DR 3,820 $ 4976 5,085 0.608 0.808
21,517 28 033 76,473 97 434 53,837 6.420 9.692
3,799 4944 13,265 17,282 12212 1.516 2.265
2,028 2,638 1 O79 S214 8,690 1,026 1.532
- - 2 800 3,648 A778 0.860 0.861
4,050 ‘6,276 14,150 18434 13,360 4.586 2.370 .
g 10 22 29 3.910 0,466 0.697
255 332 885 1,153 4,487 0.635 0.799
: - : 50 65 3915 G.467 ‘0.607
2,026 2,638 7075 9217 8,600 1,026 1.532
23 BAD 30,671 82 248 107,157 58,537 6.980 10.429
20,250 26 382 70,760 92,172 60,960 6.370 9.069
50,625 65,954 176,875 230,431 127 AGO 14.478 21.629
18,728 24,398 85 442 85 258 47 375 5.649 8.447
105 137 375 488 4146 0.494 0.739
40,125 13,491 35,375 46 O86 27 AVO 3.267 4,882
52 68 18 23 3,935 0.469 0.701
548 733 1,912 2492 6,169 0616 0.921
5,708 7 436 19 O52 25,994 17,154 2.046 3.056
8,100 10,553 28 G00 36,569 22,700 2.707 4.044
345 450 1,215 1,583 4710 0.562 0.830
8 858 11,539 30,992 40,325 24,462 2917 4,358
1,268 1,651 4A22 5,762 6 AR7 0.815 1.218
22 29 88 vi4 3,958 0.472 0.706
2,152 2,804 7938 9820 8,200 1,062 4.687
5,062 6,596 17 GBH 23,043 15,650 1 B86 2.788
15 19 55 72 3.935 0,469 0.701
3,037 3957 10,613 13,826 10,950 1.306 1.951
22. 28 5B 76 3895 0.468 0.699
192,239 250,417 678,191 885,540 $61,279 66.930 400.000
1,268 1,651 4A22 5,762 6837 0.815 2.485
~_ - 4,000 S211 5,150 U.614 1,857
. 29,815 38 B42 57 585 75,021 49 043 8.848 1/683
1,268 1,651 4,422 6,762 6,837 0.815 2465
502 655 2,668 3475 § 075 0.605 7.830
6,330 8,247 22,118 28,805 18 S87 2.216 6.702
21,998 28 658 50,292 65,520 41 234 4.217 14,867
. 16,000 20 845 8,800 1.061 3.20S
2,182 3,625 $728 12,673 10 362 1.236 3.736
1,268 1651 4,422 b,/62 6837 O.815 “2.485
502 655 2,668 BA75 5,075 0.605 1,830
2865 3,733 4956 BASS 7,937 0.946 2.862
7 590 9,888 28,530 34563 21,525 2.567 7761
16,120 21,001 173,920 226,581 83 948 10.010 30,268
92,308 120,257 383,722 499,910 277 347 33.070 100,000
RB 284,547 $370.:704 SBR1 0Gi 913 $1,382,450 Bags 626 100.000

 

 

 

 

2 As of 31 December 1976, the United States has subscribed to 30,048 shares out of the 67,500 shares to which it is entiticd to subscribe
under Resolution No. 104 ot the Board of Governors,

103104

APPENDIX 1-Vtil

ASIAN DEVELOPMENT BANK — ORDINARY CAPITAL RESOURCES

NOTES TO FINANCIAL STATEMENTS

31 December 1978 and 31 December 1977

 

NOTE A —

SUMMARY OF SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES

{1} Unit of Account
The Ordinary Capital Resources financial statements are
expressed in thousynds of current United Stares dollars.

(2) Capital Stock

The capital stock is defined in Article 4, paragraph 1 of
the Articles of Agresment “in terms of United States
dollars of the weight and fineness in affect on 31 January
1966” (the 1966 dollarl. The capital stock had historic
ally bean translated into ihe current United States dollar
(the Bank’s unil of account), an the basis of its par value
in terms of goté. From 1973 until 31 March 1978, the
rate arrived at on ihis basis was $1.20695 per 1966
dollar, Since 1 April 1978, at which time the Second
Aenendment to the Articles of Agreemant of the International Monetary Fund (IMF} came into effect,
currencies ao longer have par values in terms of gold. The
Bank Is examining the implications of this change on the
valuation of its capital stock but has not made a decision
on the matter. Pending such u decision, the Bank’s capital
stock has been valued for purposes of the accompanying
4978 financial stataments in terms of lhe Special Drawing
Right {SDR}, at the value in current United States dollars
as computed by the IMF. As of 31 December 1978, the
SDR was valued at $1.30279, {See Note C. This pote
atso shows what the value of the Bank’s capital stock
would be H expressed in terms of $1.20635 per 1966
dollar.)

{3) Translation of Currencies
Assets und liabilities in currencies other than United
States dollars arc translated at the applicable rates of
exchange at the and of the year, except that unamnortizad
issuance costs of borrowings in such currencies are
translated at applicable historical rates.

-Except for uriortized issuance costs ef borrowings
which are translated at spplicable historical ratos, income
and exponse arnounts in currencies other than Unitecl
Statas dollars are transluled for each quartar generally
at the rates of exchange at the beginning of the quarter;
such practice approximates the application af average
rates in effect during the quarter.

Translation udjustments, other than those relating to
maintenance of value of currency holdings under Article
25 (see Nolte BD) and "Notional amounts required to
maintain value of currency holdings’ {sce Note |}, are
charged or credited to iricome,

{4} Loans
The Summary Statement of Loans {Appendix 1-V}
presents, by country, totel approved loans to be financed
‘from Ordinary Capital Resources. Adjustments for loans
not yet effective, refundings and cancellations, payments
receivad, Inans agreed to be sold and exchange adjustments are made to arrive at effective loans held by the
Bank.

 

(5) Unamartized Discounts, Premiuins and Issuance Costs of
Borrowings
Unamortized discounts, premiums and issuance costs of
borrowlngs are smortized over the life of each issue in
proportion to euch of the principal amounts outstanding.

{6} Property, Furnitura and Equipment
The headquarters seat of (he Bank,’ including tand,
building, facilities and fixtures and the initial cost of
necessary slaff amenities and of related furnishings are
provided to the Bank by the Government of the Republic
of the Philippines, Furniture and equipment purchased by
the Barik are charged to expense when acqu ired.

(7} Staff Retirement Casts
Tne Bank absorbs all expenses of aclministering the Staff
Retirement Plun and charges all of its contributions
thereto (see Note H) to administrative expenses currently.

NOTE B—

RESTRICTIONS ON USE OF CASH IN BANKS AND
DEMAND OBLIGATIONS OF MEMBERS

In accordance with Article 24, paragraph 2{i), the use by the
Bank or by any recipient from the Bank may be restricted by the
mamber to ‘puyments for goods or services produced and
intended far use in its territory as follows:

The use of cash in banks and demend obligations in the
currencies of 25 (24-1977) members aggregating
$232,288 000 ($203,868,000 — 1977).

In accordance with Article 24, paragraphs 2(i) and {ti}, the use
by the Bank or by any recipient from the Bank has been restricted by the member to payments for goods or sarvices
produced tn its territory, as follows:

The use of cash in banks and demand obligutions in the
currencies of two members aggregating $11,033,000
($11,175,000 — 1977).

NOTE C CAPITAL STOCK

The authorized capital stock of the Bank consists of 722,007
shares, of which 670.926 shares have been subscribed by
members. Of the subserined shares, $36,280 ore ‘callable’ and
134,046 are “paid-in”. The “callable” share capital is subject to
call by the Bank only as and when required to meet the Rank’s
obligations incurred on borrowings or on Guarantees. The “‘paidin’? share capital ts payable or has been paid in instalments,
partly in canvertible currencies and parlly in the currency of
tho subscribing member, In uecordance with Article 6, paragraph
3 of the Articles, {he Bank accepts non-negotiable, non-interestbearing demand obligations in satisfaction of the portion payable
in: the currency of the member, where such currency is not
required by the Bank for the conduct of itsaperations.

In the Articles, the Bank's capital stock is defined “in terms of
United Slates dollars of the weight and firicness in effect on

a31 January 1966", and the value of each share of stock is
defined as being 10,000 1966 dollars. On 1 April 1978, the
Second Amendment to the IMF Articles enlered into force,
under which gold has been abolished as a common denominator
ot the international monetary system, currencies no longer have
par values, and afl caleulations for the purposes of the IMF
Articlas are made on the basis of the SDR. Simultanecusly, the
provision of United States law defining the par vaiue of the
United States dollar in terms of golel was repealed, As a result
ot these changes, the pre-existing basis for translating the term
"United States dollars of the weight and fineness in effect on
31 January 1966" into current United States dollars, or into any
other currency, no longer exists.

The Bank is considering a proposal that iis capital stock be
redefined in terms of the SOR. A member government has
raised the question whether the substitution of a new unit of
value, insofar as tt would give rise io any new obligations with
respect to maintenance of yalue and capital stock subscription
payments, should be made only by amendment of the Articles.
This member has also raised questions as to the appropriatsness of substituting a unit af value other than the SOR, the
desirability of retaining the principle of maintenance of value,
and the form in which maintenance of value should be applied.

It is the opinion of the General Counsal of the Bank thar the
SBH is the successor in the international monetary system to
the gole-based doliar, and that pending tho oxercise by the
appropriate authorities of the Bank of their statutory powers
under Chapler iX of the Articles, references in the Articles
te the 1966 dollar should ba read as referring to the SDR as
defined from time to time by the IMF. In view of this, and
pending consideration and action on thie issues referred to in the
preceding paragraph, the Bank has for purposes of these financial
statements expressed the value of its capital stock in terms
of tha SDR, on the hasis that each share has the value of SDR
10,000. For purposes of these financial statements, it has also
moasured the niutual obligations of each member and of the
Bank with respect to maintenance of value of currency holdings
by that siendard., However, the appropriate authorities of the
Rank could decide that the value of each share should be fixed
at $12,083.5G, on the basis of a substitution of 1.20635 current
Unitecl States dollars for each 1966 dollar.

When the SOR was introduced into the IMF Articles in 1969, it
was expressed in terms of a specitied weight of gold equal ta the
gold cantent of the 1866 dollar, Since 1 Juiy 1974, its value has
been based vn the weigtted relative values of a nuriber of major
currencies (a ‘‘currancy basket}, Qa 1 Juty 1974, the valua of
the SOK, expressed in terms of current United States dollars,
was $1,20635, namely the same value as the 1966 dollar, but
subsequently the value in current monetary terms has veried
fram day to day. As of 31 December 1978, the value of the SOR
in terms of the United States dollar was $1.90279, giving
a yalue for euch sharo of the Bank’s capital stock equivalent
to $13,027.90. With effect from 1 July 1978, the IMF has
made certain adjustments in the SDR currency baskel, und has
established a method for further adjustments at five-yearly
intervals, to reflect changes in the relative importance of
currencies over time, while ensuring continuity and reaseunable
predictability for the valuation of the SOR. The adjustments

 

 

APPENDIX 1-VIIL

CONTINUED

 

made at the time of the changa are such that the value-of the
revised basket in terms of any currency was exactly the sama
under both the then existing and tha revised valuation, ©

The substitution of the SDR rather than $1,20635 in current
United States dollars for the 1966 dollar does not have a
material effect on the finuneial position ur resulls of operations
of the Bank. {f the capital stock as of 31 Decamber 1978 had
been valued in terms of $12,063.50 per share, the “callable
capital subscribed would have been $6,469,414 000 instead of
$6,986 ;603,000, the “paid-in capital subscribed would have
been $1,624,302,000 instead of $1,754,154,000, the total
subseribed capital would have been $8,093,716,000 instead
of $8,740,757 000, and maintenance of value obligatians would
have been $39,188,000 payevle to members instead of
$45,443,000 receivable from mambars.

As of 31 December 1976, all matured instalments amounting ta
$1,383,450,000 ($1,118 ,352,000 —' 1977) were received except
$361,000 due from two members ($253,000 due from amamber
~ 1977}. Instalments not due aggregating $376,704,000
($391 419,000 — 1977} ara receivable as follows:

Ws 1977
1978 $ os $126,322,000
1979 161,722,000 101,477,000
1980 109,496,000 81,818,000
1981 109,486,000 81,808,000

Soine mombers have made payments in respect of their capital
sudscription instalments in advance of the due data. Such payments are shown in the balance sheet (under the caption
"CAPITAL AND RESERVES") as ‘‘Acvanee payments on
subscriptions’ pending the determination of tha full value of
such payments based on the rate ot exchenge to be used’by the
Bank as of the date on which such payments are actually due.

NOTE 0 —

AMOUNTS RECEIVABLE. AND AMOUNTS PAYABLE TO
MAINTAIN VALUE OF CURRENCY HOLDINGS

These represent the aggregate amounts receivable end the:aggregale amouils payable resulting from ctnges in exchange rates
of member currancias from those previously used for the
Purposes of muinlenance of value, under Articla 25 and.relovant
resolutions of the Roard of Directors, of the Bank's haldings of
cerlain member currencies (see Notas C and 1),

NOTE E

SPECIAL RESERVE

In accordance with Article 16, paragraph 1, the Bank charges a
commission calculated at one per cent per ennurn an the out
slunding amount of ioans made by it from the Ordinary.Capiral
Ressurces. In accordance with Article 17, an amount equivalent
to such cummissions is appropriated to a Special Reserve. Sperial
Reserve Fund assets conslst principally of certificates of depasit,

105106

ASIAN DEVELOPMENT BANK — ORDINARY CAPITAL RESOURCES

NOTES TO FINANCIAL STATEMENTS

31 December 1978 and 31 December 1977

 

NOTE F —
CAPITAL SET-ASIDE FOR SPECIAL OPERATICINS

Pursuant to the provisions ot Article 19, pusayreph 144i}, the
Board of Governors has authorized the setting asice of 10 per
cent of the unimpaired “paid-in capital paid by members
pursuant to Article 6, paragraph 2(u) ard of the convertible
currency portion paid by members pursuant tn Article 6,
paragraph Alb) as af 28 April 1973 to be used as part of the
Special Funds of the Bank, The resources su set aside, amounting
to $62,025,006 as of 31 Decamber 1978 expressed in tarms
of the SOR on the basis of $1,80279 per SDR (#57,434,000
in terms of $1.20638 per 1966 dollar — see Notes A and C),
were allocated and transferred to the Asian Dovelupment Fund,

NOTE G —

ORDINARY RESERVE AND NET
APPROPRIATION OF COMMISSIONS TO
RESERVE

Under the provisions of Article 40, the Board of Governors shall
determine annually what part of the net incame atter appropriation of commissions to Special Heserve {see Note E) stall be
allocated, aflor rnaking provision for resarves, ta surplus and
what part, if any, shall be distributed to the members. Net
income after apprupriation of commissions to Special Reserve
for the year ended 31 Becember 1977, namely $72 ,3h1,CO0,
was allocated ta the Ordinary Reserve in accordance with the
resolution adopted by the Board of Governors at the Eleventh
Annual Meeting. Sirnilar allogations had previously been made in
respect ot net income atter appropriation of commissions lo
Special Reserve fur the preceding periods.

INCOME AFTER
SPECIAI.

The restatement of the capitel! stock for purposes of these
financiat staternents on the basis of the SOF instead of the 1966
dollar (see Notes A and C) results in a charue of $17,753,000 to
the Ordinary Reserve. This charge represents the $102,384 ,000
restatement of tha matured capital subscriptions reduced by the
$84,631,600 notional maintsnanca of value adjustmenrs attrihutable to the increase in the value of the SDH in relation to the
United States dollar, the Bank's unit of ancount. (See Note }).

NOTE HH
CONTRIBUTIONS TO STAFF RETIREMENT PLAN

The Bank has a contributory Staff Retirement Plan (the Plan).
Every employee, as defined under the Plan, shall. as a cendition
uf service, become a participant as of the first day of his service,
provided that as of such a date, he shall not have resched his
vormal retirement date. Tha Plan applies also to members of the
Board of Directors who elect to join the Plan. The Staff Retireroent Plan as are segregeted and held in trust anc are nor
included in the accompanying belance sheet.

 

From Macember 1974, each participant has contrivuted 9 1/3
per cent of his remuneration to the Plan, and the Bank has
contributed 18 2/3 per cent of the participants’ rernuricration,
The Bank's contribulion is delermined at a rate sufficient to
cover that part of the costs af the Plan not covered by the
participanis’ cantributions. For the year ended 31 PDecamber

 

APPENDIX 1-Vili

  

1978, the amount contributed by the Bank was $2,185,000
($1,938,000 — 1977}.

NOTE} =

NOTIONAL AMOUNTS REQUIRED TO MAINTAIN VAI.UE
OF CURRENCY HOLDINGS

Prior to 1 April 1278, the Bank implemented maintenance of
value in respect of holdings of member currencies in terms of
1286 dollars, in accordance with the gravisions of Article 26 of
its Articles and relevant resolutions of the Board of Directors.
Inasmuch as the valuation of the Bank's cupital stock and the
basis for determining possib!e maintanance of value obligations
after the effactiva date of the Second Amendment to the IMF
Articles are still under consideration, notional arnaunts have
been calculated provisionally as receivable from or payable to
members in order to maintain the value of currency holdings
in terms of the SDR, The timing of any establishment and settiamant of such amounts is uncertain. The notional amounts as of
831 December 1978, consisting of receivahles of $68,139,000
and payables of $21,923,000, represent {a) the increase of
$84 631,000 in amounts required to maintain the value of
currency huldiags to the extent of matured capital subscriptions
due to the increase in the value of the SDA in relation to the
United States dollar, the Bank's unit of account, offset by (b)
itic nat incresse of $38,415,000 in the value of such currency
haldings in relation to the United States dollar during the period
i April 1978 to 37 December 197A.

NOTE J—
ADMINISTRATION CHARGE

An Administration Charge to Special Operations was instituted
in 1971, It was based on @ formula which tovk inte considera
lion certain administrative expenses and the number and amount
of loans approved. Etfective J Januery 1978, the formula was
revised tu take into consideration all administrativa expanses
{other than those appertaining directly to ordinary operations
and special operations) and the number of loans approved. As a
result of the changa in the formula, the charge for the year
ended 31 December 1978 was increased by $2,251 O00.

NOTE K -TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE

The outstanding carnmitments, as ot 31 December 1978, for
technical assistance projects ung progrems appravec by the
Bank, were approximately $12,806,000 ($10,101,000 — 1977);
to the extent available, contributions te the Technical Assistance
Special Fund may be used to meet expenditures arising out of
the commitments, The amount stiown is exclusive of technical
assistance services made available on a reimbursable basis:
however, when techmeal assistance rendered as a part of the
commitment ,shown Imads to loans for specific projects, the
Portion representing lhe cosl of design and engineering and any
balance of amount over $150,000 ($100,000 crior to 31 May
19/7) will be converted lo the subsequent loan. Under such
options, no technical assistance expenditure ($206,000 — 1977}
was charged to loans end credited to income of Ordinary Capital
Resyurces during the year endad 31 December 1978nei

DELONTTE HASKINS & SELLS

Certified Public Accountants

1114 Avenue of the Americas
New York 10036

OPINION OF INDEPENDENT AUDITORS

Asian Developmant Rank

   

We love examined the following financial statements of the Asian Development Bank — Ordinary Capital

Resources:
Appendix
Balance Sheet, 31 Desernter 1978 and 31 December 1977 1-1
Statement of income and Expenses for the years ended 31 December 1978

and 31 Devember 1977 1-4
Statement of Changes in [inanclal Position fo; the years ended 31 December 1978

and St December 1977 1-0
Statement of Cash in Banks and Demancl Obligations of Members,

31 December 1978 1: 1V
Summary Statement of Loans, 37 December 1973 t-V
Summary Statement ot Borrowings, 31 Dacember 1978 and 31 Uevember 1977 t- VI
Statement of Subscriptions to Capital Stack and Voting Power,

31 December 1978 t- Vil
Notes to Financial Statements, 31 December 1978 and 31 December 1977 t- VEL

Our examinations were mace in accordance with generatly accepted auditing stundards und, accordingly,
included such tests uf the accounting records and such other auditing procedures as we considered necessary
in the circumstances.

In our opinion, such tinancial statements present fairly the financlal position of the Asian Development Bank
~- Ordinary Capital Resources at 31 December 1978 uid 31 December 1977 and the results of its operations
anc the charges in its financial position tor the years then ended, in conformity with generally accepted
accounting principles applied ci a consistent Lasis.

DELONITE HASKINS & SFILS

23 February 1979

 

407108

  
   

ASIAN DEVELOPMENT BANK .

BALANG

Expressed in Thousands «

Technical Assistance
Special Fund (Note 3}

 

ASSETS 1978 1977
CASH IN BANKS $ 575 $ 315
INVESTMENTS
Government and government guarantead obligations —
arnortized cost which approximates market {Face
amounts $21 ,308 — 1978, $22,458 — 1977} 38573 13,770
Time deposits 4,273 4,603

LOANS {Note 5)
Effective loans held by Bank = 
ACCRUED INCOME
On investments . 26 33
On loans . . _ ~

RESOURCES AVAILABLE FOR GRAWING

 

Contributed Resources (See Appendix 1-D) 2,407 1123
OTHER ASSETS 882 478
TOTAL / $23,735 $17 319

i I

 

LIABILITIES, UNE XPENDED BALANCES AND CAPITAL

 

ADMINISTRATION CHARGE PAYABLE TO ORDINARY CAPITAI, RESOURCES {Note 6) go oH go 
ACCOUNTS PAY ABLE
Asian Development Fund — .
Others 2 2,246 4,214

UNEXPENDED BALANCES AND CAPITAL 2
Contrihtsted Resources (See Appandix 7-3) 39,793 31,079
Credit arising from transfer to the Asian Development Fund
of Administration Charge Payable (Note 6) =

Accumulated net incorne (expense) (Sse Appendix 1-B)
Contributed Resources . (78,304) (14,974)
Actrued Resources {Note 4{b)]

 

 

TOTAL : $23,735 $17,319

BN A

 

 

The accompanying notes to financial statements (Appendix 1-1} are an Integral part af this statement._ APPENDIX 1-A

 

‘SPECIAL FUNDS RESOURCES

“SHEET .

Winited States Dollars (Note 2}

 

Bo an

Multi-Purpose Special Fund (Note 4) Consolidated

 

22,222
. 2,860

387

1423

508

$26,768

 

 

$. 663

1,002 596 1 B02 : 506
= - 2246 1,214
6851 7 ANT 46,644 38,496
305 305 308 ~ 805
= “ (18,304) . : (14,974)
270 468 270 “468
$9,017 £ 9,449 $32,752 , “$26,768

en ippr

709110

APPENDIX 1-B

ASIAN DEVELOPMENT BANK.— SPECIAL FUNDS RESOURCES

STATEMENT OF INCOME AND EXPENSES AND ACCUMULATED NET INCOME’ (EXPENSE)

For the Years Ended 31 December 1978 and 31 December 1977

Expressed in Thousands of United States Dollars (Note 2}

pth LS

 

 

 

 

 

Technical Assistance Multi-Purpase
Special Fund (Note 2) Special Fund {Note 4)*
tll A RR i
1978 1977 1978 = 197
INCOME
From investments $ 880 $ 664 $ 41 $ 30
From loans
Intarast - - ~ 27
’ Service fee = = 4 23
From conversion of grants into loans (Note 7} = - 205 475
From other sources 1 3 ~ GROSS INCOME : 681 597 250 565
EXPENSES
Administrative expenses
Staff -- Consultants
Headquarters 80 167 - =
Project appraisal and other field missions 1,298 729 = Other administrative expenses
Administration Charge (Note 4) - ~_ 118 187
Depository bank charges 1 1 _~ ~
Miscellaneous 3 23 - Total ® 1,382 920 118 187
Services to member countries (Note 7}
Project preparatian missions and other loan-related
tachnical assistance — Consultants 1,725 804 ~ Project implementation/advisory —
Consultants 7A7 749 = oe
Ragional activities ~
Consultants 182 294 ied =
Total , 2,654 1,847 ~ =
GROSS EXPENSES 4,036 2.767 118 187
tNCOME (EXPENSE) BEFORE NET GAIN
FROM CHANGES IN VALUE OF CURRENCIES (3,355) {2,210} 132 368
NET GAIN FROM CHANGES IN VALUE OF
CURRENCIES — resulting primarily fram translation of
currency holdings derived trom earnings (Note 2} 25 18 138 400
NET INCOME {CXPENSE) FOR THE YEAR {3,330) {2,195} 270 468
BAL ANCE OF ACCUMULATED NET INCOME {EXPENSE}
AT BEGINNING OF THE YEAR (34,974) {12,779} 468 289
TRANSFER TO ASIAN DEVELGPMENT FUND = = (468) {289}
i
BALANCE OF ACCUMULATED NET INCOME {EXPFNSE}
AT END OF THE YEAR $(48 304) $(14,974) $270 $468

pi tt

The accompanying notes to financial statements (Appendix 1-1) are an Integral part of thls statement.
a Income arid expenses for 1978 pertain to Accrued Resources onty while those far 39/7 pertained to both Accrued Resources and
Contributed Resources, Tharé was no income (expense) in respect of the tatter In 1978.ASIAN DEVELOPMENT BANK — SPECIAL FUNDS RESOURCES

STATEMENT OF CHANGES IN FINANCIAL POSITION
For the Years Ended 31 December 1978 and 31 December 1977

Expressed in Thousands of United States Doilars {Note 2)
re

Technical Assistance Multi-Purpose c ‘
Special Fund (Note 3) Special Fund (Note 4) onsolidated

gE meee

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

FUNDS WERE PROVIDED BY 19/8 1977 1978 1977 1978 1977
Operations ———
Net income {expense} $13,330) $(2,195) $ 270 $ 468 $(3,060) = $1,727)
Items not requiring or providing funds:
Accruod expenses 501 40 = - 501 40
Accrued income 8 (33} (108) {64) (100) {97)
Administration Charge - _ 118 187 118 187
Funds provided by (utilized for} operations (2,821) {2,188} 280 591 (2,541) (1597)
Contributions drawn 4,483 6,263 -- - 4483 5,263
Increase (decrease) in contributions drawn as a result of :
currency revaluations 2947 1,917 (566) (828) 2,381 1,291
Loans collected - - - 103 oo 103
Loans and other assets transferred to the Asian
Devalapment Fund ~ - 468 9,425 468 9,425
Other — net 124 28 471 585 6a6 613
Total 4,733 5,020 683 10,078 5,386 15,088
FUNDS WERE UTILIZED FOR
Loans disbursed ~ - 204 144 204 144
Resources transferred to the Asian Development Fund = - 48S 9,747 468 9,747
Administration Charge paid - - 692 - 692 =
Total - 1364 © 9.891 1,364 © 9B9t
INCREASE {DECREASE) IN CASH IN BANKS AND
INVESTMENTS $4,733 $(7711 $ 187 $ 4,022 $ 6,207
INCHEASE [DECREASE) IN COMPONENTS OF FUNDS BO
Cash in banks $ 260 $ (854) $ 28 $ (236) $ 288 ¢ {AGO}
Investments 4,473 5,B74 {733} 423 3,734 6,097
TOTAL $4,733 $5020 ${(711) $$ 187 $ 4022 $ 5,207
rr es

The accompanying nates to financial statements (Appendix 1-5) are an integral part of this statement.
fi

APPENDIX -41:C' °

 

111112

ASIAN DEVELOPMENT BANK — SPECIAL

FUNDS RESOURCES

STATEMENT OF CONTRIBUTED RESOURCES

31 December 1978

Expressed in Thousands of United States Dollars (Nate 2)

APPENDIX 1-D

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Contributicns Amounts Cornrnittec! Resources
Committad and Made Amounts Available for
During 1978 Available Drawn Drawing
TECHNICAL. ASSISTANCE SPECIAL FUND (Note 3)

Australia 261 $ 1.217 $ 1217 $ Austria _ 5 144 144 Bangladesh = 25 25 Belgium i 762 376 437
Cunada ~- 1,536 1,536 China, Republic of = 200 200 =
Denrnark 960 71,855 1,295 560
Finland = Vi? 117 Germany, Federal Republic of 481 481
Hong Kong oes 100 100 _
India = 493 393 100
Italy ol 160 150 =
Japan 2,919 25,887 26 887 Koroa, Republic of 150 330 330 Netherlands 127 793 651 142
New Zeeland 398 729 331 308
Norwoy 199 299 299 Pakistan 70 258 249 7
Sri Lanka _ 6 6 =
Swedan = 463 463 Switzer lend = 603 603 =
United Kingdom 610 210 1,334 773
\nited States z - 1,250 
Tote! 5,684 39,783 37 386 2407

MULTLPURPOSE SPECIAL FUND (Note 4)

Canada = 6891 6,851 TOTAL $5,684 $46 644 $44,237 $2,407

 

Lhe accompanying notes to Mnancial statements (Appendix 1-1)

are an integral part of this statemant.ASIAN DEVELOPMENT BANK — SPECIAL FUNDS RESOURCES

STATEMENT OF ACCRUED RESOURCES

For the Years Ended 31 December 1978 and 31 December 1977

Expressed in Thousands of United States Dollars (Note 2)

   

APPENDIX :E |

 

1978 1977
BALANCE AT BEGINNING OF THE YEAR $ 4g $ 289
Net INCOME FOK THE YFAR 270 468
TRANSFER TO ASIAN DFVELOPMENT FUND (468) (289)
BALANCL AT END OF THE YEAR $ 270 $ 468

 

 

lhe accompanying notes to financial Sslatements (Appendix 1-|) are an integral Part of lhis statement,

443ASSETS!
CASH IN BANKS

INVESTMENTS
Government obligations — amortized
cost which approximates market
{Face amount $18 674)
Time deposits

ACCKUED INCOME
On investments

RESOURCES AVAILABLE FOR DRAWING
Contributed Resources (See Appendix 1-1)

OTHER ASSETS
TOTAL
LIABILITIES AND
UNEXPENDED BALANCES
ACCOUNTS PAYABLE
UNEXPENDED RALANCES
Cantributed Resources (See Appandix 1-D)
Amounts made available

Accumulated net income {expensai
{Sec Anpendix 1-B) t

TOTAL

mi i

14

Australia
$ 76
26
$ 102
g 81
1,217
41,196)

Austria

75

$ 103

   
  
  
  
  

ASIAN DEVELOPMENT BANK:
TECHNICAL ASSISTANG

BALAN

31 Decemb:

Expressed ip Thousands

Bangladest Belgium - Canada
$ 25 $ 62 $6 63
- - 710

- 427 = 1 23

$ 25 $ 490 & 736

$ - $ 34 $ 50
26 752 1,536
- (236) {850)

$ 25 $ 490 $ 736| APPENDIX “1-F

SPECIAL FUNDS RESOURCES
t
SPECIAL FUND (Note 3)

}
t

E.

&

[
SHEET
5

 

 

 

 

 

 

1978

‘United States Dollars (Note 2) CONTINUED

é China Germany

: Re: sablig af Denmark Finlend Federal Hong Kong India \taly Forward

{ . ° Republic of

t $4 $ 9 $ 16 $ = $ 8 $ 85 $ 69 $ 322

i

t

5 40 _ . _ 27 - 852

i % 517 - - - - 128 640

= 1 - - - - 14 25
_ 560 7 _ _ 100 - 1,087
= = se = 17 - 67

i g 41 $1,097 $ 16 $ - $ 8 $ 229 $ 146 $2,903

i

b ¢ ~ $ - $ - ¢ : - $ 18S $ 273

f . 200 1 BES 117 481 100 193 150 7,070

4

Ee (159) (768) 17101) (481) (92) (372) (4) (4,350)

é $41 $1,097 $ 16 $ $8 $ 229 $ 146 $2,998

 

118ASIAN DEVELOPMENT BANK ~..

 

 

 

 

 

 

TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE

Expressed in Thousands af

 

 

 

BALANCE

31 December

 

 

Korea, 3 New
Forward Japan Aupublicat Netherlands Zeal
ASSETS
CASH IN BANKS $ 922 $6 $ 145 $ 27 $ INVESTMENTS
Government obligations — amortized
cost which approximates market
{Face amount $18 474) 852 17,386 19 we
Time deposits 6A0 - = _ =
ACCRUED INCOME
On investrnents 25 - - _
RESOURCES AVAILABLE FOR DRAWING
Contributed Resources (See Appendix 1-0) 1,087 - - 442 308,
OTHER ASSETS 6/ A22 - - TOTAL. $ 2,993 $17,877 . $ 164 $ 169 § 398
i RR
LIABILITIES AND
UNEXPENDED BALANCES
ACCOUNTS PAYABLE $ 213 $ 1,410 $ 3 $ 193 $ UNEXPENDED BALANCES
Contributed Resources (See Appendix 1-D)
Amounts made available 7,070 25,887 330 793 729
Accumulated net income lexpanse}
(See Appendix 1-B} (4.9501 (9,120) (168) {?27} (331)
TOTAL. $ 2,993 $17,877 § 164 $ 169 $ 998

 

J he accompanying nates to financial statements (Appendix 1-1} ave an Inicoral parUol this statement.

H6APPENDIX 1-F

ECIAL FUNDS RESOURCES

ECIAL FUND (Noite 3}

IEET

78

ited States Dollars (Note 2)

 

Norway Pakistan Sri Lanka Sweden Switzerland United United

 

 

 

7
Kingdam States otal
ent ne ein :
$3 $ 6 $ $ 8 ¢  - $ = $ - $ 576 5
79 188 - - 49 - = 18,572 |
‘ 199 - - 434 - - : 1,273 y
“
_ = _ - = os 25 :
_ 7 = ~ 773 ~ 2,407 }
~ ~ 6 219 168 “ 882 :
$781 $ 201 f $ AAD $ 268 $ 942 $ $23,725 é
i
$ $ Ca $ 14 $ ? § 744 Boe § 2,246
299 266 8 AGB * B03 2,107 1,260 39,793
(18) (55) (6) (35) (337) : (1,908) (4,760) (18,304)
» & 281 & 201 g$o+ § 442 $ 268 $ 942 $o- $23,735

 

 

 

W17APPENDIX 1-G

ASIAN DEVELOPMENT BANK — SPECIAL FUNDS RESOURCES

TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE SPECIAL FUND
SUMMARY STATEMENT OF EXPENSES
For the Year Ended 31 December 1978

Expressed in Thousands of United States Dollars (Note 2}

a

TOTAL ADMINISTRATIVE EXPENSES (Forward) $1 382

SERVICES TO MEMBER COUNTHIES

ADMINISTRATIVE EXPENSES Project preparation missions and other loan-related

Staff-Consultants technical assistance — Consultants

 

 

 

 

 

Headquarters $ 80 Afghanistan 144
Project appraisal and other field missions & Bangladesh 383
Afghanistan 44 Burma’ 301
Bangladesh 234 Fi 79
Bisnmd 50 Indonesia 276
Fiji a Korea, Hepublic of 208
Hong Kong a2 ear 37
Indonesia 126 Sri Lanke 81
Korea, Republic of 192 Thailand 225
36 Total 1,725
‘Malayste Gi jen ¥ : —
- i 5 Project implementation/edvisory — Consultants
lepal 23
; Bangladesh 311
Pakistan 102 Bu 14
rma
Papua New Guinea 38 CepKasiana 44
nas
Philippines : 85 sto 7 rr
ndones
Singapore 27 Nepul St
§ Ley
Soloman Islands 4 e oe 52
akistan
Sri Lanka 91 Teauiard 108 Papua New Guinea 78
allan
Fierk 5 Solomon Islands 63
iet Nasi
Sri Lanik
Western Samoa 10 +. anne :
ao eo onga
Tatal 1,298 Western Samoa 410
Other Administrative Expenses 4 Total _. 747
Regional activities — Consultants 182
TOTAL SERVICES TO MEMBER COUNTRIES 2.654
TOTAL ADMINISTRATIVE EXPENSES (Forward) $1,382 GROSS EXPENSES $4 036

Fhe accompanying notes to financial statements (Appendix 1-{) ave an Integral part of this statement.APPENDIX 1-H

Spies TOE

ASIAN DEVELOPMENT BANK — SPECIAL FUNDS RESOURCES

¢

at nT PE RE RTE TERN MTN TE RIN MRE a ttt

MULTI-PURPOSE SPECIAL FUND (Note 4}
BALANCE SHEET
31 December 1978

Expressed in Thousands of United States Dotlars (Note 2)
Se

Contributed Resources Accrued Eliminations Total
Canada Resources
eee
ASSETS

CASH IN BANKS $ 48 $ 17 $ 65
INVESTMENTS
Government and government guarantead obligations —
amortized cost which approximates market
{Face amount $2,634] 2,622

- 2,622
Time danosits 5,408 140

5,548
LOANS (Note 6)

Effective loans held by Bunk o 594 591

ACCRUED INCOME
Qn investments 188 1
On loans 1

190

RECEIVABLE FROM ASIAN DEVELOPMENT FUND i — $1) Pe

er i
TOTAL $8,268 $760 ${1) $9,017

rr in ge

LIABILITIES, UNEXPENDED
BALANCES AND CAPITAL

/
|
L

ADMINISTRATION CHARGE PAYABLE TO
ORDINARY CAPITAL RESOURCES

(Note 6} , $ ~ $3 89 $ so

PAYABLE TO ASIAN BDEVFI OPMENT FUND 1A? 86 .. BH 1,502”
UNEXPENDED BALANCES AND CAPITAL °
Contributed Resources (See Appendix 1-D]
Amounts made available 6,851

- 6,851
Credh arising from transfer to Lhe
Asian Dovclopment Fund of .
Administration Charge: Payable (Note 6} - 305 305
Accumulated tet income (See Appendix 1-R} - 270 270

A rr A

TOTAL : $8,288 $750 $(1) $9,017

 

er ee

The accompanying notes to financial statemenis (Appendix 1-1) are ant Integral part of this statement,

119126

ASIAN DEVELOPMENT BANK — SPECIAL FUNDS RESOURCES

NOTES TO FINANCIAL STATEMENTS

31 December 1978 and 31 December 1977

 

NOTE 1 =
GENERAL

ta)

(}

fe)

(a)

Since 1967, the Bank has established Special Funds
Resources to finance the special operations of the Bank
as provided in Asticle 19 of the Articles of Ayrecment.
Such Special Funds Resources consist of a Tachnics!
Assistence Special Tund and a Multi-Purpose Special
Fund.

(n 1974, the Asian Development Fund was established.
Six contributors alected to have their contributions to
the Multi-Purpose Special Fund made efter 31 December
1972 credited toward the amount of their contributions
to the Asian Develupment Fund. Accordingly, their
contributions were transferred ta the Asian Development
Fuad.

Ag a further step to strcamlina and restructure the Special
Funds, transfer ta the Asien Develppment Fund of the
resources in the Multi-Purpose Special Fund (wilh the
concurrence of the relevant contributor) was authorized
in 1975, Accordingly, since 1 October 1975, all the
resources in the Multi-Purposa Special Fund, except a

portion of the contribution of Cansda, the nat income of

tha Accrued Resources for the year ended 31 December
19/8 und other credit have been transferred to the Asian
Develanment Fund,

Since the Special Funds Rules and Regulations do not
apply to the Asian Development Fund, the accompanying
financial statements do nol include the operations and
activities of that Fund

NOTF ? ~

SUMMARY OF

(a)

 

Unit of Account
Vhe Special Funds Hesources financial staternents are
expressed in thousands wf current United States dollars.

 

 

 

SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIFS

(APPENDIX 1-1

{b) Translation a7 Currencies
Assets. liabilities and unexpended balances in currencies
other than United States dollars are translated al the
applicable rates of exchange at the end of the year.

Income and expense amounte in currencies other than
United States dollars are translated for euch: quarter
generally at the applicable rates of exchange at the
beginning of the quarter; such practice approximales
the application of average ‘rates in effect during the
quarter,

Transtetion adjustments relating to funds representing
the unexpended balances of contributions are otfset by
increases or decreases in the contribution accourils. Other
translation adjustments aré charged or credited ta income.

{co} —- Contributions

Amounts contributed by member countries are included
in the financial statements as contributions committed
from the date contribution agreements ara signed and
related formalities are completed. As to those rember
countries which have agreed to consider specific requests
for financing, the amounts shown in the finan statements as contributians committed are based ori the
specific reyuests approved through 31 Dacember 1978
and 31 December 19//,

   

NOTE 2—
TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE SPECIAL FUND

Since 1967, contributions have been made by 23 member
countries to be used by the Bank for financing technical
assistance activities, In most cases, Lhe initial use of the contri.
butians shall be for the procurement of expert services and
facilities from tne contributing member country. There has been,
however, a trend towards liberalization of the procurement

 

tltarms. Therefore, some of the contributions are substantially or
wholly untied.

NOTE 4 —

MULTI-PURPOSE SPECIAL FUNO

{a} Since 1968, contributions have been made by 14 mamber
couritries to be used by the Bank for financing speci
operations (othar than non-relmbursahle technical
assistance). However, as 6 result of transfers of contributions ta the Asian Development Fund [see Notes 1(b) and
1{e)]., & portion of the contribution of Canada Is the only
contribution remaining in the Multi-Purpose Special Fund
at 31 December 1978.

 

{o) = The teren “Accrued Resources’ refers to the resources
derived trom the service fee charged by the Bank in its
special operations in accordance with the Special Funds
Rules and Regulations far the Bank's administration of
the Special Funds Resources und to certain other income
derived from Special Funds Resources credited, held and
administered by the ‘Bank in the Multi-Purpose Special
Fund.

NOTE 5—

LOANS

Loans approved by the Bank on concgssional terms are classifted
as Special Funds loans. Where necessary and when available, the
resources Of both the Multi-Purpose Specia! Fund and the Asian
Development Fund nay be used either singly or jointly to
finance such loans. The amounts shown as ‘Effective ivans held
by Bank" al 31 December 197% represented only the portions
of loans outstanding which were disbursed frurn ‘tie resources
remaining in (he Multi-Purpose Special Fund

APPENDIX 1-1

 

NOTE 6—
ADMINISTHATION- CHARGE”

An Administration Charge to Spetial Operations was instituted
in 1971, (t was based-an@ forrnula which look inty-corisidera‘tion certain administrative. axpannes and-the-‘number.and amount
of loans approved. Effective 1 January 1978, the ‘formula was
revised fo teke..into. consideration :all, iadmlnistrative- “expenses
(other than .thos¢ sppertaining directly ‘tO ordinary. operations
and special operatigns) and the number of! loans sepproved, As 2
result of the change in the tormula, ‘the charge for the year
endect 31 Oecember 1978 was increasetl ‘by..$27 060. Upon
transfer of the: bulk -of the resources to the Asian ‘Development
Fund [sea ‘Notes ‘Hb) «and tic)]., the Adrninistration Charge
Payable to Ordinary Capital -Mesources--applicatile ‘to such
resources and contributions was-also transferred, resulting ‘in. z
net cregit srising from ‘such transter of the liability.

 

 

NOTE 7 —
TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE.

The outstanding ‘commitments, 8 :of 31 “December 1978, for
technical assistance projects’. and .pregrams’ approved ‘by ‘the
Bank, were.approximately $12,806,000 ($103103,000:— 1977);
to theextent available, coritributions tothe | echnical-Assistance
Special Fund may ibe used to. aie expenditures arising out of
the commitments. Fhe: amount ‘stown .is.exclusive-of technical
assistance services ‘made availaile-on @ -veimibursable basis;
howaver, when technical assistance: fenderad asa part of ‘the
commitment shown lewds ‘lo ‘loans for -specilic projects, the
portion -represanting the:cast of design and engineering and any
balance of amount over $150,000 ($100,000 :prior to 31 May
1977) will ‘be ‘converted to the -stibsequent “foan. Under such
options, ‘technical ‘assistance . expendituras: -of $206,000
($475,000 --1977)-were charged to loans.and ‘credited te income
of Spacial’ Funds Resources during the year ‘ended 31 December
1978,

 

124122

vO Oc

DELOITTE HASKINS & SELLS

Certitied Public Accountants

4114 Avenue of the Americas
New York 10036

OPINION OF INDEPENDENT AUDITORS

Asian Development Bank:

We have examined the foltowing financial statements of the Asian Devalopment Bank — Spacial Cunds
Resources:

Appendix

Balance Sheet, 31 December 1978 and 31 December 1977 tA
Statament of income and Expenses anc Accumulated Net Income {Expense}

for the years ended 31 December 1978 avid 31 December 1977 1-6
Statement of Changes in Financial Position for the years ended 31 December 4978

and 31 December 1977 1-C¢
Staternent of Contributed Resources, 31 December 1978 4-D
Staternent of Accrued Resources for the years ended 31 December 1978

and 31 December 1977 1-E
Technical Assistance Special Fund Balance Sheet, 31 December 1978 1-F
Techniaal Assistance Special Fund Summary Steternent of Expenses for the

year ended 31 Dacember 1978 1-G
Multi-Purpose Special Fund Balance Sheet, 31 December 1978 1-H
Notes to Financia! Staternents, 31 December 1978 and 31 December 1977 qed

Our examinations were made in accordance with generally accepted auditing standards and, accordingly,
included such tests of the accounting racords and such other auditing procedures as we considered necessary
in the circumstances.

in our opinion, such financial statements present fairly the financial posilion of the Asian Development Bank
—~ Special Funds Resources at 31 Decemher 1978 and 31 December 1977 and the results of its aperations
and the changes in its financial position tor the years then ended, in conformity with generally accepted
accounting principles applied on a consistent hasis.

DELGITTE HASKINS & SELLS

23 February 1979

AAPPENDIX 1-1

ASIAN DEVELOPMENT BANK - ASIAN DEVELOPMENT FUND

BALANCE SHEET
31 December 1978 and 31 December 1977

Exprassad in Thousands of United States Dollars (Note 2}
. a
ae eee eeee
ASSETS 1978 1977
CASH IN BANKS $ 9,570 $ 11,452

INVESTMENTS
Government and government guaranteed aitistens amortized cost which approximates market 5
(Face amounls $128,636 - 1978, $100310 ~ 1977) $ 126,473 $ 99.078
Tire deposils and other obligations of banks . 163,183 289 656 ' $45 840 .244'918

LOANS (See Appendix 1-4) (Note 4)
-Laans approved —$ 1,546,893 ~- 1978, $1.1

 

Effective loans held by Bank ~~ . 1,294,682 : : 945573
ACCRUED.INCOME : . . 7

On investments 5 . 8.155 ‘ 5,760 .

‘On loans , . : 2,762 10,917 , 1,831 7594
‘NOTES OF-CONTRIBUTORS Ors

Nori-negctiable, non-interest-hearing notes 971,445 S s 677 294
ACCOUNTS RECEIVABLE , . ~ “ee gE

‘Multi-Purpose Special Fund i 1502 8G" Ye 3

Others ’ . x 2862 4,364 ' 135 73)

TOTAL ‘ ; ; $2,580,634 ~ "$1,887,659

‘LIABILIT ‘les, UNEXPENDED BALANCES AND" CAPITAL

UNOISBURSED BALANCE OF EFFECTIVE: LOANS

(See Appendix 1-4) $ 740,914 CO og 820,527
ADMINISTRATION: CHARGE PAYABLE TO-ORDINARY CAPITAL ere

‘RESOURCES (Note 5) : 5,775 ‘8.745
ACCOUNTS PAYABLE : 1226 3,120

UNEXPENDED BALANCES AND CAPITAL
Resources made available aud drawn (See Appendix 1-5)

 

Contributed Resources . $1,709,481 “$1,170,635

Set-Aside’ Resources {Note 3) 62,025 57,434

Other Resourcas 4,081 3,613

Total 1,775,587 . 4 281 82

Advance payment on contribution 5,788

Accumulated net income {Sce Appendix 1-2} 51944 1,833,319 28,580 1,260,262
rete
TOTAL $2,580,634 $1 887,659

St te Ra A

The accompanytny notes to financial statements (Appendix 1-6) are an Integral part of this statement.

123APPENDIX 1-2

ASIAN DEVELOPMENT BANK ~— ASIAN DEVELOPMENT FUND

STATEMENT OF INCOME AND EXPENSES AND ACCUMULATED NET INCOME
For the Years Ended 31 December 1978 and 31 December 1977

Expressed iri Thousands of United States Dollars (Note 2)

 

i

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

1978 ‘ 1977

INCOME

From investments $21,951 $17,414

From tnans 7,666 AQ27

From other sources 224 216

GROSS INCOME 29,841 22,657
EXPENSES

Administration Charge {Note &) * 10,196 6903

Ospository bank charges 13 5

GROSS EXPENSES 10,203 6,908
{INCOME BEEOHE NET GAIN FROM CHANGES IN

VALUE OF CURRINCIES 19,638 15,649
NET GAIN FROM CHANGCS IN VALUE OF

CURRENCICS — resulting primarily from transtetion

of currency holdings derivec from earnings (Note 2) 3726 1 B46
NET INCOME FOR THE YEAR 23,364 47,295
BALANCE OF ACCUMULATED NET INCOME AT f

BEGINNING OF THE YEAR . 28 580 , 11,285
BALANCE OF ACCUMULATED N& f INCOME AT

ENO OF THE YEAR $51,944 $28 580

ooo

 

 

 

The accompanying notes to financlal statements (Appendix 1-6) are an integral part of this statement.

124APPENDIX 1-3

ASIAN DEVELOPMENT BANK — ASIAN DEVELOPMENT FUND

STATEMENT OF CHANGES IN FINANCIAL POSITION
. For the Years Ended 31 December 1978 and 31 December 1977

Expressed in Thousands of United States Dollars (Note 2}

 

 

 

 

 

1978 1977
FUNDS WERE PROVIDED BY
Opcrations :
Net income $ 23,364 $ 417,295
Items not requiring or providing funds: . .
Accrued income including capitulized interest i
and service charges on loans (3,326) “(4 782)
Administration Charge 10,190 "6.903
Funds pravided by operations 30,228 22,406
Increase in undisbursed balance of effective loans 297 050 ".  198:480
Cantributions drawn 352,320 2211 ABS . Increase in contributions drawn as a result of “say
currency revaluutions 192,314 “418,716
Notes of contributors ancashed 131450 194 B94
Loans collucted 6,336 7 932
Resqureas transferred from the Multi-Purpose Special Tuned A468 * 9747.
lricrease in Set Aside Resources due to subistitution of the SOA : we he 3? é
for the 1966 dollar as unit of valua 4,591 . =
Total 1,014,757 7 8883610
FUNDS WERE UTILIZED FOR °
297,080

Increase in effective loans
Loans disbursed . 186,987
Increase in loans disbursed and outstanding as a resull of

 

 

 

 

 

qurrancy revalualions 68,671
Notes of contributors received 309,220
Inereage iri notes of contributors as a rasult of currency revaluations 116,281
Administration Charge paid 8,160
Louns and other assets transferred fram the Multi-Purpose Special Fund AG8
Other — net : $064
rats 971,201 : < §853086
INCREASE IN CASH IN BANKS AND INVESTMENTS eg 8 $ 42,856 B 78'544
INCREASE (DECHEASE) IN COMPONENTS OF FUNDS ee
Cash in banks $ (1.882) . .. $120,863)
Investments . 44,738 . ae 99 407

 

TOTAI $ 42,956 , _ > $78,544

 

 

 

 

ihe accompanying nates to financial statements (Appendix 1-6) ‘are an‘intégral part of this statement. ~APPENDIX 1-4

ASIAN DEVELOPMENT BANK — ASIAN DEVELOPMENT FUND

SUMMARY STATEMENT OF LOANS*
31 December 1978

Expressed in Thousands of United Slates Dollars (Note 2}

at

 

 

Amount Cftective Cancellations Received Held by Bank Effective Licane® Balance
RR
Afghanistan $ 75000 $ - $ - $ 188 $ 74812 $ 56,783 $ 15,029
Bangladesh 363,930 90,300 1,183 343 262,134 194.977 67 157
Burma 196 660 7 960 ~ - 188,700 112976 14,724
Cambodia “1,670 = - - 1 870 1 027" $43
Gilbert Islands 1,756 - = - 1,750 4,234 516
Indonesia 137,280 24,000 3,281 4,368 108,631 19,060 89,571
Korea, Republic of 3,700 = 102 400 3,198 - 3,198
Laas ‘ 19,693 8,000 6 616 41,171 3,018 8,153
Malaysia 3,300 - - 213 3,087 - 3,087
Nepal 148,340 25 000 ~_ 2,703 120,637 91,085 29,852
Pakistan 290,350 86,500 98 4,604 202,161 146 519 86,432
Papua New Guinea 47 940 - - : 1,701 46,239 ' 32,420 13819
Philippines 28,300 14,000 - 373 670 14,257 3,140 11,317
Singupore 3,000 - - - 3,000 - 3,000
Solomon Islands 9,200 - - ” 9,200 $516 684
Sri Lanka 137,105 33,900 6,145 2,135 94.925 44,198 50,727
Thailand . 22,100 14,000 - - 8,100 4,348 3.782
Tonga 3,170 1 500 - - 1,670 61 1819
Viet Nam 40,676 20 400 3,745 238 16 287 10,975 6,312
Western Samoa 22,835 4,000 61 162 18612 6,487 12,225
Adjustments in

United States dollar

equivalents of Joans

disbursed 108,042° 105 042°

Portions of loans

allocated to the

Multi-Purpose

Special Fuad [Note 4) (591) (591)
Total $1,546,993 $329,560 $14,961 $12,241 $1,294 G82 $740,314 $554 368

a

 

The accompanying notas to financlal stalements (Anpend|x 4-6) are an integral part of this statement.

a The Bank makes a service charge on all Special Funds foans appraved after 21 March 1974 at the raiea of 1% per annum, On loans
approved prior to 21 Maych 1974, the Bank charges Inturest {including a service fee of 3/4 of 1%} ranging from 1% per annum
to 3% per annum.

p Where necessary and when available the resources of the Multi-Purpose Special Fund will also be drawn upon ty finance these

loans (See Note 4). .
Of the undisbursed balance, the Bank has antered into irrevocable commitments te disburse $4,787,
3 Pending consuttation with the government conceming its intentions with respect to the project being Financed, the Bank has

suspended further disbursements of the laan. .

e This amount represents adjustments in United Stites dotlar equivalents, arising from the changes In the exchange yates used tor
translation of curruncies disbursed and outstanding on loans, and repayable to tha Bank in such currencies.

2/APPENDIX 1:5

ASIAN DEVELOPMENT BANK — ASIAN DEVELOPMENT FUND

STATEMENT OF RESOURCES

31 December 1978

Expressed in Thousands of United States Dallars (Note 2)
ee

Resources Amounts Not Yet Amounts Made
Committed Made Available Available and Drawn

ae

CONTRIBUTED RESOURCES

 

 

Australia $ 66,730 $711,692 $ 54,038

Austria - 8,526 = 8,526

Belgium 18,312 a 187312

Canada 90,830 - 90,830

Denmark 14,660 - +4860

Finland 3,528 al 3,828

Germany, Federal Republic of 149 528 uae 149.528

Italy 38,418 - 38,418

Japan 893,285 = 893,285

Netherlands 39,524 - 39,624

ee New Zealand $526 - ‘8526
By Norway 10,374 - 10;874 |

; Sweden 9,728 - 9,723

: Switzerland 25 399 - 25,399

ti United Kingclom 73,810 - 73,810

‘. United States 230,000 60,000 270,000

J Totat 1,781,173 71,692 1,709 481

, SCT-ASIDE RESQURCES (Note 3) 62,025 oa 62,025

OTIIER RESOURCES 4,081 - 4,081

TOTAL $1,847,279 $71,692 $1,775,087

rrr rer aR

The accompanying notes to financial statements (Appendix 1-6) are an inlegral par! af this sLatement,

127128

ASIAN DEVELOPMENT BANK — ASIAN DEVELOPMENT FUND

NOTES TO FINANCIAL STATEMENTS

31 December 1978 and 31 December 4977

 

NOTE i —

GENERAL

{al

{b)

{c}

{d}

{c}

In April 1973, the Board of Governors authorized the
establishment cf a new Special Fund to be known as the
Asian Development Fund {the Fund}. Subsequently,
the Board af Governors also authorized initial resource
mobilization arrangements for the Fund during the three
years ended 3t Deeernber 1975 under 3a two-stage
program providing for a total amount equivalent 10
US$3525,000,000, in April 1974, the Raard of Directors
adopted Regulations tor we administration of the Fund
On 28 June 1974, the Fund was estuslished whan Instruments af Contribution were deposited with the Bank
by ten contributors with contributions -ia an aggregate
amount exceeding the equivalent of UIS$225 000,000,
this beirig the minimum amount required lo establish
ihe Funct.

Six contributors clected to neve lheir contrigutions to

the Multi-Purpase Special Fund made atter 31 Decamber
{972 nredited toward the amount of their contributions
to the Eurid, Aecordingly, their contributions were
transferred to the Fund.’

Three contributurs have requested und the Roard of
Directors has agreed, that Une initial use of their contributions in the First Sluye, aggregating the equivalent
of US$105,219,000 at 31 Devember 1978 (US
$105,030,000 — 1977) be sestricted to procurement
of goods and services from their respective countries.

On 30 June 1975, the Second Stage of the Initial resource
mobilization arrangements tor the Fund became effective
when fnstruments of Contribution were deposited with
the Bank by 11 contributors with contributions in an
agaregate = unount exceeding the equivalent of
US884 000,000, this being the minirium amount requized
40 bring the Secand Stage into cftect

As a further step to streamline and restructure the Special
Funds, transfer ta the Fund of the resources in the Muiti
Purnose Special Fund {with the concurrence of the
relevant contributor) was aultiized in 1975.
Accordingly, since 1 October 4975, the Set-Aside
Resources, Lhe contributians of nine contributors, a

 

(ft)

pe A

APPENDIX 1-6

 

portion of the cuntributian of Canada and the accumu
lated net income of the Accrued Resources up ta 31
Decornber 1977 have been transterred from the MulliPurpose Special Fund to the Funct.

{n December 1975, the Board of Governors authorized
the first replenishment arrangements tor the [Fund
during the three years ending 31 December 1978 under a
thiee-instalment program providing for a total original
amount equivalant to US$830,000,000. On 28 June
4976, the first instalment of the first replenishment
arrangements became effective when Instruments of
Contribution were deposited with the Bank by eight
contributors with contributions in en aggregate amount
exceeding the equivalent of US$475,000,000, this being
the minimum amount raquired to bring the tirst irstalment into effect. The secund and third instalments
beveme attactive on 14 April 1977 and 13 June 1978,
respectively, after payments vf the minimum amounts
equivalent to US$185,000,000 for the second instalrort
and US$400,000,000 for the third instalnient were
received.

 

In July 1978, the Board of Governors authorized the
second replanishment arrangements for tha Fund during
the four years ending 31 December 1982 under a fourinstulmont program, The arrangements provide for
basic contributions in a toval amount equivalen| to
US$2,000,000,000, The Buard of Governors also,
authorized «othe Bank to accept supplementary
cuntrinutions up to a further amount equivalent to
US$150,000,000. This replenishment shall come into
etiecL on the date when Instruments nf Contribytivo
have been deposited with the Rank for unqualified
contribuiiuns in an aygregate amount uquivalant to at
feast US$1,000,000,000. As of 31 December 1978, an
Instrument of Contribution has been deposited with the
Benk for an unqualified contribution equivalent 10
US$2S 600 00D.

NOTE 2 ~

SUMMARY OF SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIFS

(a)

Unit of Account
The financial staternents of the Fund are expressed in
qthousanris ot currant United States dollays,{b} Translation of Currencies
Assets, liahilitiss and unexpanded balances in currericies
other than United States dollars are translated at the
applicable rates of exchenge at the end of the year.

Income and expanse amounts in Currencies other than
United States dollars are translated for each quarter
generally at the applicable rates of exchange at the
beginning of the quarter; such practice approximates
the applicalion of average rales in effect during the
quarter,

Translation adjustinents rélating to contributions ure
offset by increases or decreases in the contribution
accounts. {ranslation adjustments relating to capital setaside are recorded as rensivahie from or payable to
Ordinary Capital Resources. Other transtelion edjustments ure credited or charged lo incurne,

{c) Contributions
Amouols contributed by meriber countries ac included
in the financial statements as contributions committed
trom the date contribution agreements are signed and
relatecl formalities are completed

NOTE 3 -—CAPITAL SET-ASIDE FOR SPECIAL OPERA] IONS

Pursuant to the provisions of Article 19, paragraph 1(i), the
Soard of Governors buy aulhorized ihe selting aside of 10 per
cent of the unimpaired “paid-in” capital paid hy members
pursuant to Article 6, paragraph 2fa) and of the canvertible
currency portion paid by members pursuant to Article 6,
paragraph 2{b) as of 28 April 1973, to be used as part o7 the
Special Funds of the Bank, The resources so set aside were
allocated and transferred from the Ordinary Cepital Resources
to the Fund.

The capital stock of the Bank is defined in Article 4, paragraph 1
of the Articles of Agreement “in terms of United States dollars
of the weight and fineness in effect on 37 Junuary 1956" (the
1966 dollar). Therefore, Capital Set-Aside had historically been
translated into the current Unived States dollar {the Bank's
unit of accaunt), on the basis of its par value in terms of gold,
From 1973 until 31 March 1978, the rate arrived at on this basis

 

APPENDIX 1-6

was $1,20635 per 1966 dollar. Since 1 April 1978, at which
time the Second Amenciment to the Articles of Agreement of
the International Monetary Fund {IMF} carne into affect,
currencies ne lonyer have par values in terms of gold. The Bank
is examining tha implications of this change on the valuatian of
its capital stock but has not made a dacision on the matter.
Pending such a decision, the Cupitul Set-Aside hes been valucd
for purposes of the accnampanying 1978 financial statements in
terms of the Special Drawing Right (SOfft), at the value in
current United States dollars as computed by the IMF. As uf
31 Decesnber 1978, the SDR was valued at $1.30279, On this
basis, Capital Set-Asida amounied iu $62,025,000. The
substitution of the SOA rather than $1.20685 in current United
States dollars for the 1966 dollar does not have a matcriul effect
on the financial position or results of operations of the Fund
if the capital stock as of 31 Oecember 1978 had been valued
in terms of $12,053.50 per share Capital Set-Aside would have
been $87,494 900,

 

 

NOTE 4—
(OANS

Loans approved by the Bank on concessional terms are classified
as Speciaf Cunds loans, Where necessary and when avuileble the
resources uf both the Multi-Purpose Special Find and the Fund
may he used either singly or jointly to tinance such loans.
The portions of laans allacated to the Multi Purpose Speciul
Fund, representing disbursements in respect of individual Inans
made fram the resaurees remaining int that fund, are shawn as
un adjustmeni to the Summary Statement of Loans

  

NOTES —
ADMINISTRATION CHARGE

An Administration Charge to Specie! Operations was instituted
in 1971. It was based on a formula which tenk into consideration certain udministrative expenses and the number and arnount
of loans approved. Effective 1 January 1978, tho formula was
revised ta take inta consideration all administrative expenses
(olher than those appertaining directly to ordinury operations
and special aperations) and tha number of loans anpraved, As a
result of the change in the formula, the cherge tor the year
ended 3t Qecember 1978 was increased by 2,374,000,

12930

DELOITTE HASKINS & SELLS

Certified Public Accountants

1114 Avenue of the Amaricas
New York 10036

OPINION OF INDEPENDENT AUDITORS

Asian Development Bank:

: “‘Weshave examined the following financial statements of the Asian Developrnent Fund:

Apnencilx
Balance’ Sheet, 31 December. 1978 and 31 December 1977 , 1-1
Statement of ineornes ancl, Cxpenees and Accumulated Net Income for
the years ended 31 Decernber 1978 and 31 Decamber 1977 1-?
Statement of Changes in Financial Position for the years ended 34 December 1978
and 31 December 1977 : 1-3
‘Summary Statement of Louns,.31.Deeember 1978 1-4
_Statamant of Resources, 31 Deceraber 1978 4-5
Nates to-F nancial Statements. 831 Decernber 1978 and 31 December 1977 1-6

Qur examinations were made in accordance with generally accepted auditing standardsand , accordingly,

inclucied such tests of the accounting records and such other auditing procedures as we considered necessary
in the circumstances.

In ovr apinion, such financial sttersents present fairly the financial position of the Asiun Development
Fund at 31 Lecornber 1978 and 31 December 1977 and the resulls of its operations and the changes in its
financial position for the years then ended, in conformity with generally accepted accounting principles
applied on a corisislont basis.

DELOITTF HASKINS & SELLS

24 February 1979APPENDIX 2

SUMMARY OF BUDGET FOR 1979
INTERNAL ADMINISTRATIVE EXPENSES

 

 

 

1978 ee
Original Revised 1979
Budget Budget’ Actual Budget

|. BOARD OF GOVERNORS $ 274,000 $ 373,000 $ 359,968 $ 75,000
I, BOARD OF DIRECTORS ___ 1,699,000 1,758,000 1,787,582 1,967,000
Salaries 919,000 935,700 936,683 1,009,000
Benefits 345,000 333,500 333,360 407,000
Relocation 412,000 485,000 184,858 228,000
Business Travel 188,000 458,500 158,451 170,000
Staff Services 144,000 145,300 145,230 153,000
Wl. STAFF 18,283,000 18,455,000 18,447,843 _ 22,884,000
Salaries 11,106,000 11,145,000 11,143,255 13,507,000
Benefits 4,667,000 4,712,000 4,708,009 5,736,000
Relocation 890,000 994,000 993,471 . 1,441,000
Consultants - 4,626,000 1,604,000 1,603,108? 2,200,000

{V, BUSINESS TRAVEL AND
REPRESENTATION 1,853,000 1,940,000 4,939,482 3 2,605,000
Business Travel 1,803,000 1,891,000 4,890,871 2,550,000
Representation 60,000 49,000 48,614 55,000
V. , OTHER ADMINISTRATIVE EXPENSES / 3,548,000 3,716,000 3,708,848 4,433,000
Commununications . 665,000 _ 730,000 728,902 739,000
Oftice Occupancy 4,326,000 4,402,000 4,401,694 4,848,000
Library 400,000 108,000 107,128 142,000
Expendable Supplies 260,000 277,000 276,177 323,000
Office Equipment 305,000 294,000 293,748 323,000
Contractual Servicas 700,000 718,000 716,606° 885,000
insurance 120,000 97,000 90,366 118,000
Miscellaneous 83,000 95,000 94,2254 85,000
VI. GENERAL GONTINGENCY 300,000 _ _ 640,000
TOTAL 25,957,000 26,242,000 26,213,721 32,604,000

Incorporating the Supplementary Budget. Transiers between items were made at yuar ond without excbeding the talal for each bidgal calegory
Includes $4,378,133 trom the Tachnisat Assistance Special Fund.

Jnchudes $830 [rom Ihe Teelinical Assistance Special Fund,

Includes $2,991 jrom the Technical Assistance Special Fund,

Ron oa

131APPENDIX 2

SUMMARY OF BUDGET FOR 1978
SERVICES TO MEMBER COUNTRIES

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

CONTINUED
1978 a 8
Financed from Bank's Commitments Disbursements Budget '
Own Resources Original Revised Original New .
. Budget Budget! Actual Budget? Actual Commitments Disbursements
Project Preparation $5,650,000 $5,168,000 $4,720,717 $2,768,100 $2,615,267" $5,570,000 $3,453,000
Advisory and Operational 350,000 1,069,000 1,416,000 1,297,900 755,544 900,000 _ 1,,484,000
Regional Services 900,000 880,800 880,800 690, 100 370,667 4,230,000 825,000
TOTAL $8,900,000 $7,107,800 «$7,017,517 «$4,756,100 $3,741,478 $7,700,000 $5,762,000

Incerporating the Supplementary Buoget.

No revision of the Original Budgel was made.

Includes $1,724,832 from the Tesitinioal Assistance Special Fund.
Includes $747,118 trom Lhe Technical Assistance Special Fund.
Includes $182,844 trom the Technical Assistance Special Fund.

onoNns

 

i
i
i

ue

'
l
:
éRESOLUTIONS OF BOARD OF GOVERNORS DURING 1978

APPENDIX 3

 

Resolution ‘
Number Subject Date Adopted
114 increase in Capital Subscription of Switzerland i February
116 Further Measures to Facilitate Coramitmont and Payment 24 February
of United States' Contribution to First Replenishment:
Amendment of Resolution No. 103

416 Agreement for Cooparation Between International Fund 24 March
for Agricultural Development and Asian Development
Bank

V7 Financial Statements and Auditors’ Reports 26 April

118 Allocation of Net Income 26 April

119 Place and Data of Twelfth Annual Meeling 26 April

120 Extension of Time for Subscription to, and Payment 12 May
of Instalments Under, Second General Capital Increase

121 Second Replenishment of the Asian Development Fund 24 duly

422 Amendment of Section 7 (B) (a) of the By-Laws (And 22 Seplember
Compliance with Resolution No. 68}

123 Decisions Relating io Section & of the By-Laws of 8 December

the Bank

 

132APPENDIX 4

CHANNELS OF COMMUNICATION
{As of 31 December 1978)

COUNTRY

 

CHANNEL COUNTRY CHANNEL
Afghanistan, Treasury Department Finland Ministry for Foreign Affairs
Democratic Ministry of Finance Department for International
Republic of * - Kabul Development Corporation
cco; Ministey of Planning Tehlaankatu 1a
Kabul SF 00140, Helsinki 14
Australia Secretary France Minislere de Economie et des Finances
Commonwealth Treasury 93, rie de Rivoli
Ganberra, A.C.T. 78001 Paris
Austria Bundesministerium tor Finanzen Germany, Federal Bundesministerium fir Wirtschaftiche
Himmelpfortgasse 4-8 Republic of Zusammenarbeit
Postfach 2 Reijerat 212
A-1015 Wien 53 Bonn 12
Friedrich-Ebert-Allee 114-116
Bangladesh Ministry of Finance Postfach 12 03 22
Bangladesh Secretariat
Dacca Glilbert Islands Financial Secretary
Central Government Office
Belgium Ministere des Finances P.O. Box 67
Services des Relations Bairiki, larawe
Financiéeres avec VEtranger
20, avenue des Arts Hong Kong The Financial Secretary
Brussels Government Secrelariat
: Lower Albert Road
Burma Ministry of Planning and Finance Hong Kong
Rangoon
Cambodia India Secretary to the Government of india
Ministry of Finance
Canada Department of Finance Department of Economic Affairs
Ottawa, Ontarlo New Delhi
Canada KIA OGS
Indonesia Ministry of Finance
China, Republic of — Governor Jalan Lapangan Bantang Timur No. 6
The Ceatral Bank of China Jakarle
Talpai
: . Italy Ministero del Tesoro
Cook Islands Financial Secretary D.C. Tesoro — Div. XVI
P.O. Box 99 Via XX Settembre
» Rarotonga Roma
Denmark Ministry of Foreign Affairs Japan Mintster of Finance
. Amalicgade 7 Tokyo
DK-1256, Kovenhayn K cio Embassy of Japan
Makati, Matro Manila
Fiji Ministry of Finance .

Suva

Minister of Finance

Ministry of Finance

3-1-1, Kasumigasekl, Chlyoda-ku
FokyoCOUNTRY
Korea, Republic of
Lao People’s

Democralic
Republica

Malaysia

Maldives

Nepal

Netherlands

New Zealand

Norway

Pakistan

Papua New
Guinea

Philippines

CHANNEL

Minister of Finance
Seoul

National Bank of Laos
Vientiane

Secretary to the Treasury
The Treasury

Jalan Raja

Kuala Lumpur

Deparlment of Finance
Martne Orive
Male

Secretary

Ministry of Finance
Babar Mahal
Kathmandu

Ministerie van Financien
The Hague

Secretary of Foreign Affairs
Ministry of Foreign Affairs
Wellington
cc: Secretary to the Treasury
The Treasury
P.O. Box 5010
Wellington

Dept. of International Economic
and Social Develapment

The Royal Ministry of Foreign
Affairs

7, Junipfassen 1

Oslo

Ministry of Finance, Planning

and Provincial Coordination
Government of Pakistan
Islamabad

Secretary for Finance
Department of Finance
Post Office, Wards Strip
Waigani, Port Moresby

Minisiry of Foreign Affairs
Manila

COUNTRY

Singapore

Solomen Islands:

Sri Lanka,
Democratic
Socialist
Republic of

Sweden

Switzerland

Thailand

Tonga

United Kingdom

United States

Viet Nam,
Socialist
Republic of

Western Sanioa

APPENDIX 4

CONTINUED

CHANNEL

The Permanent Secretary
Ministry of Finance

Revenue Division

36th Floor

Central Provident Fund Building
79 Robinson Road

Singapore 1

Ministry of Finance
Secretariat
Honiara

Secretary

Ministry of Finance and Planning
P.O. Box 500

Golombo 1

Ministry for Foreign Affairs
Box 16121
103-23, Stockhotm 16

Département fadérat de l'économie
publique

Division du commerce

Palais fédéral

3003 Berne

Ministry of Finance
Bangkok 2

Ministry of Finance
Nuku alofa

Ministry of Overseas Development
Eland House, Stag Place
London $.W.I.

Secretary of tre Treasury
Treasury Department
Washington, D.C. 20220
ce: The Secretary
National Advisory Council on
International Monetary and
Financial Policies
U.S. Treasury Department
Washington, D,C, 20220

The State Bank of Viet Nam
Hanoi

Secrelary to lhe Government
Government of Western Samoa
Apia

135APPENDIX 5

OFFICIAL DEPOSITORIES
(As of 31 December 1978)

 

DEPOSITORY

 

COUNTRY DEPOSITORY COUNTRY
Afghanistan, Da Afghanistan Bank Fiji Central Monetary Authority of Fije

Democratic Kabul Suva

Republic of

: Finland Soumen Pankki-Finlands Bank
Australia Reserve Bank of Australia Helsinki
Sydney

Austria Oesterrelchische Nationalbank France Banque de France

Bangladesh

Belgium

Burma

Cambodia

Canada

China, Republic of

Gook Islands

Denmark

Wien

Bangladesh Bank
Dacca

National Bank of Belgium
Brussels

Union of Burma Bank
Rangeon

National Bank of Cambodia
Panom-Penh

Bank of Canada
Oitawa

Central Bank of China
Yaipei

National Bank of New Zealand, Lid.

Rarotonga

Danmarks National Bank
Copenhagen

Germany, Federal
_ Republic of
Gilbert Islands

Hong Kong

Indla

Indonesia

italy

Japan

Korea, Republic of

Paris

Deutsche Bundesbank
Frankfurt

Bank of New South Wales
Bairikl, Tarawa

Hongkong and Shanghai Banking
Corporation
Hong Kong

Reserve Bank of India
Bombay

Bank Indonesia
Jakarta

Banca d' lialia
Roma

Bank of Japan
Tokyo

Bank of Korea
SeoulCOUNTRY

Lao People’s

Democratic Rep.

Malaysia

Maldives

Nepal

Netherlands

New Zealand

Norway

Pakistan

Papua New Guinea

Philippines

Singapore

DEPOSITORY
Banque Nationale du Laos
Vientiane

Bank Negara Malaysia
Kuala Lumpur

Department of Finance
Male

Nepai Rastra Bank
Kathmandu

Be Naderlandsche Bank NV.
Amsterdam

Reserve Gank of New Zealand
Wellington

Norges Bank
Oslo

State Bank of Pakistan
Karachi

Bank of Papua New Guinea
Port Moresby

Central Bank of the Philippines
Manila

Monetary Aulhority of Singapore
Singapore

COUNTRY

APPENDIX 5

CONTINUED

DEPOSITORY

 

Solomon islands

Sri Lanka, Dermacratic
Socialist Republic of

Sweden

Switzerland

Thailand

Tonga

Unlted Kingdom

United States

Viet Nam, Socialist
Republic of

Weslern Samoa

Australia and New Zealand Banking
Group, Ltd.
Honiara

Central Bank of Ceylon
Colombo

Sveriges Riksbank {Bank of Sweden)
Stockholm

Banque. Nationale Suiss
Zurich i

Bank of Thailand
Bangkok

Accountant-General
Treasury Department
Nuku'alofa

Bank of England
London

Federal Reserve Bank of New York
New York

Slate Barik of Viet Nam
Head Office - Hanoi
Southern Office - Ho Chi Minh City

Bank of Wastern Samoa
Apia

13738

APPENDIX 6

BOARD OF GOVERNORS
(As of 31 December 1978}

COUNTRY

Afghanistan, Democratic
Republic of

Australia

Austria

Bangladesh
Belgium

Burma

Cambodia

Canada

China, Republic of

Cook Islands

Genmark

Succeeded Zir Gul in June.

1

2 Appoinied in June

2 Succeeded Alber LT. Hsu in July,
4

Barry Blyth Holloway (Papua New Guinea) Chairman

F.H.dw. Andriessen (Netherlands) Vice-Chairman

M. N. Huda (Bangladesh) Vice-Chairman

GOVERNOR

Mehrabuddin Paktiawal!
Deputy Finance Minister

JW. Howard
Treasurer

Hannes Androsch
Federal Minister of Finance

MLN. Huda
Minister of Finance and
Planning

Gaston Geens
Minister of Finance

U Tun Tin

Osputy Prime Minister and
Minister of Planning and
Finance

dean Chretien
Minister of Finance

Yu Kuo-Rwa
Governor
The Central Bank of China

V.A.K.T, Ingram’
Associate Minister of Finance

Lise Castergaard
Minister without Portfolio

Succeeded Geoffrey Arama Henry In August.

ALTERNATE GOVERNOR

Mohd. Naim Askaryat?
President of Treasury Department

JG. Ingram
Director

Australian Development Assislance Bureau

Erich Schmid

Ambassador to Indonasia and
the Philippines

Jakarta

S.A. Khair
Secretary
Ministry of Finance

M. DiHaeze
Vice-Governor
National Bank of Belgium

U Maung Shein
Deputy Minister
Ministry of Planning and Finance

Michel Dupuy

President

Canadian International Development
Agency

C.M. Wang?
Vice Minister of Finance

W.A, Kingi
Financial Secretary

K, Rapsdorph

Under-Secretary of Stale for
Development Co-operation

Ministry of Foreign Affairs

oiCOUNTRY

Fiji

Finland

France

Germany, Federal

Republic of

Gilbert Islands

Hong Kong

Indla

Indonasia

Italy

Japan

Korea, Republic of

lao People's

Dernocratic Republic

Malaysia

Maldives

Nepal

1 Suceneded &. Siwatibau in Decernber
2 Succeeded Pekka Madmen In March
3 Suceocded Robert Boulln in April

4 Succeeded Marie Schtel ln Marty

8 Succeeded Ronith Tewaikl in August

GOVERNOR

G. A. Stinson
Minister of Finance

Wilhelm Breitenstein?
Director of the Department tor
International Development

Cooperation
Ministry for Foreign Affairs

Rene Monory?
Minister for Economy

Rainer Otfergela*
Federal Minister for
Economic Cooperation

Tiwau Awira®
Minister for Finance

C. P. Haddon-Cave
Financial Secretary

Hi. M. Patel
Minister of Finance

Ail Wardhana
Minister of Finance

Paolo Bafti
Governor
Bank of Italy

Ippei Kaneko®
Minister of Finance

Woun Gie Kim?
Minister of Finance

Bousbong Souvannavong
Secretary of State tor Finances

Tengku Razaleigh Hartzali
Minister of Finance

Amir Abdul Sattar’
Minister of Fisheries

8. B. Thapa
Minister of Finance and
General Administration

APPENDIX 6

CONTINUED

ALTERNATE GOVERNOR

Winston Thompson!
Permanent Secretary for Finance

Eero Asp
Managing Director Finnish Export Credit, Ltd.

Jean-Yves Haberer
Olrector of Treasury
Ministry of Economy

Hans-Herbert Weber
Ministeriaidirektor
Federal Ministry of Finance

Roniti Tewaiki®
Minlster far Trade and Communications

Manmohan Singh

Secretary

Ministry of Finance

Department of Economic Affairs

Rachmat Saleh
Governor
Bank Indonesia

Falice Ruggiero”
Director General
Ministry of the Treasury

Teiichiro Morinaga
Governor
Bank of Japan

Byong Hyun Shin!
Governor
Bank of Korea

Ismail Bin Mohamed All
Governor
Bank Negara Malaysia

Adam Maniku!!
Assistant Direclor
Department of Finance

Devendra Raj Panday
Acting Secretary of Finance
Ministry of Finance

 

2 Seance

Succeaded Oliuca Trento in August
Succeeded 'Silvanc Palumbo in January
Succeeded Talsua Murayama In December
Succeeded Yong Hwan Kim in Gacamber
Succendnd Sung Whan Kim in May
Succeeded Ahmed Saleem tin December.

139APPENDIX 6

 

CONTINUED
GOUNTRY GOVERNOR. ALTERNATE GOVERNOR
Netherlands FLH. J. d. Andriessen! J. De Koning?

New Zealand

Norway

Pakistan

Papua New Guinea

Philippines

Singapore

Solomon Islands

Sri Lanka,
Democratic
Socialist
Republic of

Sweden

Swilzerland

Thailand

Tonge

Minister of Finance

R_D. Muldson
Prime Minister and
Minister of Finance

Knut Frydenlund®
Minister of Foreign Affairs

Ghulam Ishaq Khan®
Minlster of Finance
and Coordination

Barty Blyth Holloway
Minister of Finance

Cesar Virata
Minister of Finance

Goh Chok Tong®
Minister for Trade
and Industry

Benedict Kinika
Minlster of Finance

Ronnie De Mei
Minister of Finance
and Planning

Thord Palmlund®
Under-Secretary of State
Office for International
Development Cogperation
Ministry for Foreign Affairs

Klaus Jacobi

Armbassador

Delegate of the Federal Council
for rade Agreements

Suphat Sutatum
Minisler of Finance

S. lapa
Acting Minister of Finance

 

Minister for Develanment Cooperatiori

N,V. Lough
Secretary to the Treasury

Thorvald Stoltenberg!
Under Secretary of State
Ministry of Foreign Affairs

Aftab Ahmad Khan

Secretary

Ministry of Finance

and Economic
Alfairs

Mekere Morauta
Secretary for Finance

Gragorio S. Licaros
Governor
Central Bank of the Philippines

J, Y, M. Pillay
Permanent Seerctary
Revenue Division
Ministry of Finance

Pulapada Ghemu
Minister of Foreign Trade,
Industry and Labour

W. M. Tilakaratna’
Secretary to the Treasury and Secretary,
Ministry of Finance and Planning

Bo Kjallen

Head

Multilateral Department

Office for [International
Bevelopment Cooperation

Minlstry for Foreign Aftairs

Hans Meyer
Deputy General Manager
Swiss National Bank

Chanchai Lectavorn .
Under-Secrelary of State for Finance
Ministry of Finance

Baron Vaea

Minister of Labour, Commerce and
Industries and Assistant Minister
of Finance

 

ae tt

   

 

  

1 5 edad WF, Dinscibseg in Marah, S Su dad ALG. N. Kazi in duly

2? Sue ted. P. Pronk in March ® Succeeded Hon Sui Sen in March
as

4a Succeeded Per Martin Cefberg in November G Speceeded Hais Bix in Noverntoar

i
'
]
i
}
ceeded Hallvard Bakke in November ¢ Succeeded Lai Jayawardena in Apat |
i
i
t
4COUNTRY

United Kingdom

United States

Viet Nam, Socialist
Republic of

Western Samoa

1 Suceenied R. A, Browning In January

GOVERNOR

Judith Hart
Minister for Qverseas
Development

W. Michael Blumenthal
Secretary of the Treasury

Tran Duong

Minister

Lirector General

The State Bank of Viet Nam

Vaovasamanaia A. P. Phillips
Minister of Finance

APPENDIX 6

CONTINUED

ALTERNATE GOVERNOR

A. G, Hurrell!
Under-Secretary
Ministry of Overseas Development

Richard N. Cooper
Under Secretary of State for Economic
Affairs

Mai Huu ich
Deputy Chairman
Bank for Foreign Trade of Viet Nam

A. L. Hutchison
Financlal Secretary

144142

APPENDIX 7

_BOARD OF DIRECTORS AND VOTING GROUPS

- {As of 31 December 1978)

DIRECTOR

Kalyana Bikram Adhikary
(Nepal)

Cc. A. Coorey
(Democratic Socialist
Republic of Sri Lanka)

Rosario Bonavoglia®
(Italy)

Lester Edmond
(United States)

Rainer Goerdeler®
(Federal Republic
of Germany)

Harold G, Heinrleh
(Australia)

R. A. Kartadjoemena
(Indonesia)

Bong H. Kay
{Republic af Korea)

M. R. Khan
(Pakistan)

Ernest A. Oastreicher
(Canada)

Genji Nozaki®
Japan}

Y. T. Shah
{India}

GNOMe wna

In alphabetical order wilhin each group,

Suceceded You Teng Yang (resigned with effect fram 7 July} on 18 September,
Succeaded Francols Gupent (resigned with eflact from 41 July) on 1 August.
Succeeded Paul Aenisnanstin (resignad with effeel from 31 Oecember 1977) an 7 Felrviacy.
Succeeded James W. Wesinat! (resigned with effect from 8 October on 9 Onilaber
Succeaded Slanlay Fryer resigned with effect from 14 July) on 16 July.
Sucaneded A. Agatonoff (resigned with effect from & Neaember) on 12 December,
Succeeded Haruhisa Segawa (resigned with eect from 31 July} on 1 August.

ALTERNATE DIRECTOR

U Hla Maung?
{Burma}

Le Duc Van .
(Socialist Republic
ot Viet Nam)

J. M. Motioul*
(Belgium)

Jon M. Gaaserud®
(United States)

Helner Lusenin
(Austria)

Peter H. Hodge’
(Australia)

Cliff F. Sproule
(New Zealand)

William A, Lawrence
(Papua New Guinea)

A, Malchor, Jr.
(Philippines)

Karl G. Engstrom
(Sweden)

Yoshinori Yorimatsu
(Japan)

K. Mahmood
(Bangladesh)

COUNTRIES: REPRESENTED

Burma
Malaysia
Nepal
Singapore
Thalland

Democratic Republle of
Afghanistan

Lao People's Bamocratic
Republic

Demosratic Socialist Republic
of Sri Lanka

Socialist Republic of Viet Nam

Beigium
France
Italy
Switzerland

United States

Austria
Federal Republic of Germany
United Kingdom

Australla

Giloert Islands
Hong Kong
Solomon Islands

Cook |slands
Fiji

Indonesia

New Zealand
Tonga

Western Samoa

Republic of China
Republic of Korea
Papua New Guinea

Pakistan
Philippines

Canacia
Denmark
Finland
Netherlands

* Norway

Sweden

Japan

Bangladesh
indiaPRINCIPAL OFFICERS
(As of 31 December 1978)

Taroichi Yoshida
A. T. Bambawale
S. Stanley Katz
QFFICE OF THE SECRETARY
Soesilo Sardadi
Wilfred A. Vawdrey
OFFICE OF THE GENERAL COUNSEL
Graeme F. Rea
Chun Pyo Jhong
Robert L, Mueller
Daud Ilyas
COUNTRY DEPARTMENT
(Vacant)
Akira Tsusaka
Song Chil Lee

Robert H. Byrnes

S. Mahboob Alam

Zia Noorzoy

Kiaus J.L. Hoffarih

Patrick J. Knapp

Sayed A. Baha

Mazhar All Khan

DEVELOPMENT POLICY OFFICE

(Vacant)

APPENDIX 8

 

President
Vice-President

Vice-President

Secretary

Deputy Seoretary

General Counsel
Deputy General Counsel
Special Counsel

Assistant General Counsel

Director
Deputy Director and Acting Director
Deputy Director

Country Manager (Democratic Republic of Afghanistan,
Nepal, Pakistan)

Country Manager (Burma, Hong Kong, Maldives,
Democratic Socialist Republic of Srl Lanka)

Gountry Manager (Bangladesh, Cambodia, Lao Psople's
Democratic Republic, Socialist Republic of Viet Nam)

Country Manager (Malaysia, Thailand)

Gountry Manager (Republic of China, Republic of Korea,
Philippines}

Country Manager (Indanasla, Singapore)
Country Manager (Cook |slands, Fiji, Glibert

Islands, Papua New Guinea, Solomon Islands,
Tonga, Wesiern Samoa)

Chief

143144

APPENDIX 8

CONTINUED

 

AGRICULTURE AND RURAL DEVELOPMENT DEPARTMENT

Sam-Ghung Hsieh
Kunio Takase
S. T. Senewiratne

E. Frank Tacke
Po-Chuan Sun
Richard M. Bradley

M. Zaki Azam
INFRASTRUCTURE DEPARTMENT

Kasturi L. Luthra

(Vacant)

Mahesan Ganesan

Kazuo Kude

Keshav ©, Sen

Ronald S. Skeaics

INDUSTRY AND DEVELOPMENT BANKS DEPARTMENT
Jay B. Carter
Joaquin J. Gochoco
Stephen Y. ©, Lau
8. N. Vinze

Muttathotfil K. Titus
Ferdinando Buffani

CENTRAL PROJECTS SERVICES OFFIGE
Woll D. Kiuber

Erkki 4, Juslen

Director
Deputy Director
Manager (General Agriculture)

Manager (Rural Development arid
Agricultural Credit)

Manager {Irrigation | — East Asia, Southeast
Asla, South Pacific)

Manager (Irrigation I] — South Asia,
Indo-China)

Manager (Fisheries and Livestock)

Director
Deputy Director
Manager {Airports and Highways)

Manager (Ports, Rallways arid
Telecommunicatlons)

Manager (Water Supply}

Manager (Social Infrastructure, including
Education, Health and Urban Development)

Director

Deputy Director

Manager (Industry and Minerals}
Manager (Power)

Manager (Development Bariks | — East Asia, Southeast
Asia and South Pacific)

Manager (Nevelopment Banks Il — South Asia and
Indochina, Training Assistance Unit)

Chief

Manager (Consulting Services)

kADMINISTRATION DEPARTMENT

Isao Kanamoto

Raymond B. Lyon

Frank A. S. Weereratne

Dang Fook Lee

Pyeng Whi-Min

C. M, Whiticar
CONTROLLER'S DEPARTMENT

S. M. A. Kazi

Chia Ching Mok

Alan L. Pan

Eiichi Watanabe
TREASURER’S DEPARTMENT

Ulrich Linck

G. Michael Lambert

M. Ikramullah Khan

Yukiji Miyazaki
ECONOMIC OFFICE

(Vacant)

Kedar N. Kohli

Burton T. Ofiate
INFORMATION OFFICE

P. S. Hariharan
OFFICE OF THE INTERNAL AUDITOR

Carl J. Lemvig-Fog
POST-EVALUATION OFFICE

Ernest J. Ettlinger

APPENDIX 8

CONTINUED

Director

Deputy Director

Deputy Director

Assistant Director (Budget anc Planning}

Assistant Director (Administratlve Services}

Assistant Diractor (Personnel)

Controller
Assistant Controller
Assistant Controller

Assistant Cortrolter

Treasurer

Deputy Treasurer

Assistant Treasurer

Assistant Treasurer

Chief Economist

Assistant Chief Economist and Acting Ghief Economist
Chief Statistician

Chief Information Officer

Intarnal Auditor

Chiet

145