ASIAN DEVELOPMENT BCONTENTS

2 PRESIDENT’S MESSAGE

4 BOARD OF DIRECTORS

6 FINANCIAL HIGHLIGHTS
CHAPTER1

8 Responding to the Needs of Asia and the Pacific
CHAPTER 2

16 = Central and West Asia

PA) CAC

24 Pacific

28 South Asia

32 Southeast Asia

CHAPTER 3

els) Developing the Private Sector

CHAPTER 4

42 Delivering an Effective Organization

USB CONTENTS

ANNUAL REPORT 2013
FINANCIAL REPORT
OPERATIONAL DATA
ORGANIZATIONAL INFORMATION
ADB MEMBER FACT SHEETS—— mene eDEVELOF of the WO RLD’S v
POOR live in Asia

President
etnioreles through our support for...
22 OoEN BILLION ¢ es
Members a € a7 people lack MILLION
access to ' ‘children under 5
MILLION MILLION improved : are underweight

Headquarters

Manila, Philippines Inclusive Environmentally _ Regional
Senet sustainable growth integration
Founded growth

 

peoplelive ) sanitation
Reston : : : ¢$ less than 2 ages tg
enters Sains ae ¢ reas of eration safe drinkin:
i i cl i pide (obra a 1.25 water ¢ 4 LS ‘i
Nonregional e : ; e > ae members a 4 : Oo ‘e child in 20 dies
ye ions ‘ before reaching the
4 @ i age of 5
Field offi
ield offices e
e
Total employees . [ ADB assistance
tnershi Riseouctisn rere]

   
 

$21.02

118,000.. 32.9 A

Istorto Mont itaelaty orice =e] MILLION TONS

  

(entree teeth) = e
Ire Mere eeeuurol ie 5
Pee eaiene A eee) | including $14.38
MeN billion financed
ral) bans ‘ y
5 ee eaten s
MILLION 5 borrowers RT OR og Won in
Cone , cofinancin
Mee MILLION 4 i oe iS @
HOUSE Households ) 9

Cero) pielrel sare hine]
Facleng teinASIAN DEVELOPMENT BANK

REPORT

PROMOTING ENVIRONMENTALLY SUSTAINABLE
GROWTH IN ASIA AND THE PACIFICADB ANNUAL REPORT 2013

2

PRESIDENT’S MESSAGE

Asia’s development landscape has changed
dramatically over the past several decades.
mpressive growth has brought equally
impressive poverty reduction, and raised
many developing member countries of

the Asian Development Bank (ADB) to
middle-income status. Yet the region has a
long way to go on its development journey.
An estimated 733 million people still live on
less than $1.25 a day. A large proportion of
the region’s population lives on less than
$2 a day and remains highly vulnerable

to external shocks. While incomes

are increasing, so too are inequalities.
Demographic shifts are bringing new
challenges: Asian countries must find ways
to generate good jobs for young people,
provide for aging populations, increase
women’s participation in development, and
help cities cope with the intense pressures
brought about by rapid urbanization on
housing, infrastructure, and public services.

 

As it continues to grow, Asia must increase
its focus on environmentally sustainable
development. The Asia and Pacific region
is the fastest growing source of new
greenhouse gas emissions in the world.
Several of its countries are particularly
vulnerable to climate change and natural
hazards. Urban congestion, waste, and
pollution have a serious impact on the
health of the region’s population. And food,
energy, and water security are growing
concerns to the region and the world. It

is critical that we in Asia and the Pacific
respond to these concerns by continuing to
adopt “green growth” practices, responding
to climate change, and building climate
resilience into development projects.

ADB remains committed to supporting

the development of Asia and the Pacific as
it tackles these evolving challenges. This
annual report highlights our contributions
to inclusive, sustainable growth in 2013, with
a special emphasis on the environment, and
regional cooperation and integration. It also
highlights ADB’s support for private sector
development—an increasingly important
element in the region’s growth.

In 2013, ADB committed a total of
$21.02 billion in development assistance,
including $14.38 billion from ADB and
special funds; $3.85 billion from official
cofinancing partners; and $2.80 billion
from commercial cofinancing, public—
private partnerships, and private sector
operations. Given the region’s large need
for development finance, we will increase
efforts to generate more investments
through cofinancing and private sector
operations.

At ADB’s 46th Annual Meeting in Delhi

in 2013, | announced a midterm review

of ADB’s Strategy 2020. The review

has involved extensive consultations

with government officials, civil society
organizations, private sector institutions,
and international development partners
on ways that ADB can better meet the
challenges of a transforming Asia and
Pacific region. The review focuses on
improving ADB operations, building skills,
and providing better service to client
countries. | look forward to working with all
our development partners toward a better
quality of life for all in Asia and the Pacific.

  

Takehiko Nakao
President and Chairman
Board of DirectorsIt is critical that we in Asia and
the Pacific continue to adopt
green growth practices, and

   
 

 

From top left: (Vice-Presidents)

Bindu N. Lohani, Lakshmi Venkatachalam,
Stephen P. Groff, Thierry de Longuemar,
Bruce L. Davis, Wencai Zhang (succeeded
Xiaoyu Zhao on 9 December 2013);

(The Secretary) Marie-Anne Birken

POWER-LINES CARRYING ELECTRICITY from Uzbekistart 10 Kabul a Nataly high
mountains of the:HinduKush.in Afghanistan, Bras bel ae ADB= eine) or 3 nae - PRESIDENT’S MESSAGE

Cust Oe uous Bios iiiie pigpatt

3BOARD OF DIRECTORS

The Board of Directors is responsible

for the overall direction of ADB, including
the approval of policies, loans, grants,
equity investments, and guarantees. As
the representative of ADB shareholders,
the Board plays a vital role in ensuring their
guidance is implemented.

The Board analyzes ADB’s annual financial
statements, the budget and borrowing
program, the work program and budget
framework, and the salaries and benefits
of staff. It approves the ADB budget and
submits the accounts for each financial
year for the approval of the Board of
Governors at each annual meeting.

The Board meets as often as the

business of ADB requires. In 2013, it held
48 formal meetings and 28 informal
meetings, seminars, and briefings.

The Board approved $14.38 billion in loans,
grants, equity investments, guarantees,
and technical assistance. The Board’s work
is supported by six committees: Audit,
Budget Review, Compliance Review,
Development Effectiveness, Ethics, and
Human Resources.

Board members visit developing

member countries (DMCs) to observe
ADB operations and to maintain close
contact with government officials, other
development stakeholders, and people
who benefit from projects funded by ADB.
In 2013, a group visited the Lao People’s
Democratic Republic, Malaysia, and
Myanmar from 27 February to 12 March.
Another group visited Papua New Guinea
and Solomon Islands from 5 to 13 June.

A third group visited the Kyrgyz Republic
and Uzbekistan from 2 to 12 September.

Board members conduct additional visits
throughout the year to consult with

the governments of the countries they
represent.

HIGHLIGHTS

In 2013, the Board considered several issues
affecting the future strategic direction and
resourcing of ADB. These issues included
the midterm review of Strategy 2020

ADB’s sustainable level of lending, and its
budget.

ADB initiated a midterm review of its longterm strategic framework, Strategy 2020, to
improve responsiveness and effectiveness.
The Board welcomed the opportunity

to meet with staff and Management in

two informal Board sessions to discuss

the review, which concludes in 2014. In
addition, it facilitated consultations with its
constituencies and participated in a retreat
with Management in September for an indepth discussion on the review findings and
proposed strategic directions.

Throughout the year, the Board discussed
and reviewed ADB’s future lending
capacity. Because of the sustained low
global interest rate environment, ADB’s
investment income was lower than had
been projected at the conclusion of the
last general capital increase. The Board
considered a number of measures aimed
at enhancing ADB's overall lending
capacity, including adjusting ADB’s
sovereign loan pricing.

Following the 3-year transformation
exercise (2010-2012) in which ADB
established 500 new staff positions to
strengthen and realign its workforce to

 

 

ADB ANNUAL REPORT 2013

4

RETURNING TO MYANMAR

In response to reforms initiated by the Government of Myanmar in 2012, ADB has begun to

reengage with the country. In January, Myanmar settled in full its arrears owed to ADB since lending
stopped in 1988, paving the way for the resumption of ADB involvement. Eleven of the 12 Directors
visited the country and, in October, the Board approved the establishment of the Myanmar Resident
Mission in Nay Pyi Taw, the capital, to deepen ties with the government and maximize the effectiveness
of ADB operations.From left to right: (front row, Directors) Micheline Aucoin; Anthony Baker; Jér6me Destombes; Siraj S. Shamsuddin; Umesh Kumar; Robert M. Orr;
Kazuhiko Koguchi; Yeo Kwon Yoon; Bhimantara Widyajala; Maliami bin Hamad; Mario Sander; Zhongjing Wang; (back row, Alternate Directors)
Christina Wedekull; Richard Sisson; René Legrand; Gaudencio Hernandez, Jr.; Iqbal Mahmood; Michael Strauss; Hideo Fukushima;

MPD UK Mapa Pathirana; Dominic Walton-France; Khin Khin Lwin; Richard Edwards; Guoqi Wu.

implement Strategy 2020, it is now ina
more constrained budget environment.
The Board and Management considered
measures to improve ADB’s effectiveness
and to optimize the use of its limited
resources. Board inputs helped to guide
new measures adopted by Management to
contain 2014 administrative expenses and
maximize efficiencies, including reforms to
business travel arrangements.

To support ADB’s efforts to sharpen

its corporate performance, the Board
approved revisions to ADB’s results
framework—a performance management
tool adopted in 2008 to achieve the goals
of Strategy 2020. It also approved anew
results-based lending modality to support
government-owned sector programs

and link disbursements directly with the
achievement of program results.

The Board endorsed ADB’s Work Program
and Budget Framework 2014-2016, and
the 3-year rolling work program and 2014
budget of the ADB Institute.

As part of the discussions on the 2014
budget, the Board sought a more integrated

approach for reviewing ADB’s lending
capacity, operations, budget, and salaries
and benefits. As a result, the President will
introduce an iterative financial operations
and budget planning process in 2014 to
allow the Board to analyze these issues
more comprehensively.

Country Partnership Strategies

The country partnership strategy maps out
ways for ADB to assist most effectively its
developing member countries, given each
country’s challenges and priorities. It also
enables ADB to evaluate its development
performance over the strategy period.

In 2013, the Board endorsed country
partnership strategies for India, the.

Kyrgyz Republic, Nepal, and Thailand

and provided guidance on the draft strategy

for Azerbaijan.

 

Typhoon Yolanda

In November, Typhoon Yolanda
(internationally called Haiyan), killed and
injured thousands, displaced over a million,
and destroyed homes and infrastructure

in the Philippines. ADB responded swiftly.
The Board promptly approved a $20 million

grant from the Japan Fund for Poverty
Reduction to provide emergency support,
an immediate $3 million grant from the
Asia Pacific Disaster Response Fund to
help restore life-saving services, a loan

of $500 million for rehabilitation and
reconstruction, and an additional loan of
$372.1 million to restore basic social services
in severely affected areas. (See Swift
Response to Super Typhoon, page 14.)

BOARD OF DIRECTORS

5FINANCIAL HIGHLIGHTS

 

 

 

APPROVALS BY FINANCING FINANCIAL OPERATIONS Sovereign operations, including official and
ell] telteiorks In 2013, ADB’s operations totaled $21.02 technical assistance cofinancing, totaled
q billion, of which $14.38 billion was financed —_ $16.48 billion. Nonsovereign operations,
by ADB’s ordinary capital resources including cofinancing, totaled $4.54 billion.
ORDINARY CAPITAL RESOURCES (OCR) and Special Funds resources and Disbursements totaled $8.54 billion, a
$6.65 billion by cofinancing partners. decrease of $49.98 million (0.58%) from
10,363 =
2 MILLION
<q = ($ million) 2009 2010° 20117 20127 2013
SRECIAILELUNDIRESOMRSES Sovereign 16,911 14,813 14970 13,432 ~—-16,482

12,778 10,410 10,580 10,461 11,768

Loans
A O | ean 5 150 .
) 2 MILLION Grants? 924 952 614 670 849

 

Guarantees - 200 - = =
DIRECT VALUE-ADDED COFINANCING Technical Assistance 191 171 137 146 150
Direct Value-Added Cofinancing® 3,019 3,081 3,489 2,155 3,715
Official Cofinancing 2,958 2,933 3,279 2,009 3,438
6 6 4 8 Technical Assistance Cofinancing 61 148 210 146 277
) MILLION
—ewarr——————vowor————  _ Nonsovereign 3,421 3,472 5,794 7,862 4,541
Loans 438 815 1,250 1,0074 1,425
Equity 220 235 64 131 142
Guarantees = 190 267 403 35
Supply Chain Finance® - = = 200 Trade Finance Program 850 ie oH ad =
Technical Assistance 12 2 9 5 6
Direct Value-Added Cofinancing* 1,901 2,230 4,205 6,117 2,933
Official Cofinancing = = a 19 135
Commercial Cofinancing 1,900 2,229 4,204 6,097 2,797
B loans 220 200 200 200° 220!
Parallel Loans 417 479 1,623 3,341 109
Trade Finance Program 1,263 1,549 2,381 2,344 2,279
Cofinancing
Guarantee Cofinancing® - = = 87 7S
Risk Transfer* = < * 126 113
Technical Assistance 1 1 1 0 i
Cofinancing
TOTAL 20,332 18,285 20,764 21,294 21,023

 

 

-=nil,o = less than $500,000.

Note: Totals may not add up because of rounding.

* Excludes terminated loans, grants, equities, guarantees, and technical assistance.

Refer to investment grants.

© In 200, the definition of direct value-added (DVA) commercial cofinancing was clarified by providing detailed criteria for qualification of DVA cofinancing. The figures for 2009-2013
reflect the new definition.

Includes $35 million investment in debt securities.

Supply Chain Finance is a program that provides guarantees and loans (both without government guarantee) through partner financial institutions to support payments to suppliers
and distributors of goods in ADB’s developing member countries.

Includes US dollar and local currency complementary loans.

For loans provided by third parties and not fully guaranteed by ADB such as partial credit guarantees or partial risk guarantees, the portion of loans that is not guaranteed by ADB

is considered as net DVA cofinancing and reported in the year of signing the guarantee agreements.

This refers to the amount of ordinary capital resources allocation relief as a result of risk transfer arrangements, whereby a third party assumes risk under a guarantee or loan provided
by ADB. The amount of allocation relief depends on the risk rating and nature of the counterparty.

b

 

ADB ANNUAL REPORT 2013

6AVAILABLE RESOURCES

Authorized and subscribed capital

stock amounted to $163.84 billion and
$162.81 billion, respectively. Other resources
in OCR in the form of revenue and net
realized gains amounted to $1.23 billion, of
which $645.73 million was generated from
the loan portfolio, $351.43 million from the
investment portfolio, and $231.59 million
from equity investment and other sources.
Resources in the form of contributions
and revenue in ADB’s Special Funds
totaled about $4.46 billion. These mainly
included the Asian Development Fund

of $4.04 billion, the Technical Assistance
Special Fund of $380.86 million, the Asian
Development Bank Institute Special Fund
of $13.57 million, the Regional Cooperation
and Integration Fund of $6.03 million,

the Climate Change Fund of $9.06 million,
and the Financial Sector Development
Partnership Special Fund of $7.14 million.

ADB also raised $11.98 billion in mediumand long-term funds through public
bond issues and private placements in

10 currencies. Public offerings amounted
to $10.08 billion and private placements
totaled $1.90 billion. Of the public offerings,
$5.50 billion was raised through three

US dollar global fixed rate benchmarks,
the remainder through issuance across
various markets including Australian dollar,
Brazilian real, New Zealand dollar, pound
sterling, and US dollar floating rate notes.
Among its private placement offerings,
ADB continued to issue thematic bonds,
raising $233.85 million from its sale of
clean energy bonds and $119.19 million
from its sale of water bonds, bringing the
cumulative thematic bonds issuance to
date to about $1.88 billion equivalent. ADB
also issued a Singapore dollar-denominated
bond under the Asian Currency Note
Programme amounting to S$500 million
($402.45 million equivalent) at 1.027% due
2018. In addition, ADB raised $2.52 billion
of short-term funds under its EuroCommercial Paper (ECP) Program. At

the end of 2013, only $750 million of ECP
borrowings remained outstanding. ™

 

 

($ million) 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013
Ordinary Capital Resources
Authorized Capital 166,179 163,843 163,336 163,512 163,840
Subscribed Capital 60,751 143,950 162,487 163,129 162,809
Paid-in Capital and Reserves 15,1762 15,878 16,534 16,420 17,138
Outstanding Debt 42,063 51,822 58,257 64,762° 61,615
Asian Development Fund 31,973° 32,651 33,055 33,346 33,359

 

Total Disbursements, 2009-2013,
($ million)

 

Operating Income (Ordinary Capital Resources),
2009-2013 ($ million)

 

Borrowings (Ordinary Capital Resources),
2009-2013 ($ million)

 

+ Includes reclassification relating to Due from Members of $142 million as of 31 December 2009 from Assets to Capital and Reserves under Nonnegotiable, Noninterest-Bearing Demand

Obligations on Account of Subscribed Capital.

Obligations on Account of Contribution.

From 2012 onward, amount includes accrued interest and commission.
Includes reclassification relating to Due from Contributors of $2,186 million as of 31 December 2009 from Assets to Fund Balances under Nonnegotiable, Noninterest-Bearing Demand

FINANCIAL HIGHLIGHTS

7ADB ANNUAL REPORT 2013

       
   
    
   
  

    

nce in transport, energy,
riculture, and the social sectors,
has helped reduce our
le’s isolation and improve
access to electricity, water supply, and
social services. The government values
its partnership with ADB, which is
Meee teins

meee ae WUE Aa erm iam ecw icle ii)
CeO TaN Celi

od a

x «RESPONDING TO
THE NEEDS OF ASIA
AND THE PACIFIC

The Asia and Pacific region contributes
about one-third of global output and over
half of global economic growth. Growth in
the region is forecast to grow moderately at
an average of 6.3% in 2014-2015.

While fast growth has helped substantially
in reducing income poverty and propelled
most ADB developing member countries
(DMCs) into middle-income status, the
region remains home to about two-thirds of
the world’s poor. Despite early achievement
of the first Millennium Development Goal
target of halving the number of people in
extreme poverty, 733 million in the region
still live on less than $1.25 a day, while

1.6 billion survive on less than $2 a day.
Inequality, as indicated by disparities in
access to basic services and other factors,

is increasing.

ADB’s long-term strategic framework,
Strategy 2020, adopted in 2008, focuses
on promoting inclusive economic growth,
environmentally sustainable growth, and
regional integration. ADB operations are
concentrated in Strategy 2020’s five core
areas: infrastructure, environment, regional
cooperation and integration, finance sector
development, and education. Selective
operations in other areas such as health,
agriculture, and disaster and emergency
are conducted in close partnership with
other agencies.

 

STRATEGIC FOCUS

In 2013, ADB strengthened its approach
to support inclusive economic growth.
It revised its corporate results framework
to include several new indicators to
measure its contribution to the three
pillars of inclusive economic growth:
high and sustainable growth to create
and expand economic opportunities,
including jobs; broader access to
economic opportunities; and the
provision of adequate social protection
for the poor and disadvantaged. It issued
guidelines for stronger integration of
inclusive economic growth into country
partnership strategies (CPSs). The

CPSs approved in 2013 for India, the
Kyrgyz Republic, Nepal, and Thailand

incorporated inclusive growth indicators.

ADB’s financing operations also increased
their emphasis on inclusive economic
growth. Infrastructure investments focused
primarily on the first two pillars of inclusive
growth. They helped to create and expand
economic opportunities, including jobs, and
improved access to basic services, including
electricity, water supply and sanitation, and
education and health.

ADB operations, particularly in the
infrastructure sector, continued to
emphasize environmental sustainability,
the theme of this report. A new operational

AFFORDABLE ENERGY FOR THE POOR: A TRIPLE CHALLENGE
To address the triple challenge of supply security, environmental sustainability, and affordable access,
developing Asia must contain its rising energy demand, aggressively explore new supply sources and technology,
and progressively integrate regional energy markets and infrastructure. Asian Development Outlook 2013: Asia’s
Energy Challenge has been one of ADB’s most-read publications. Read it at adb.org/publications

A DECADE OF

RESULTS 2004-2013
(Asia and the Pacific)

 

WATER

Water supply pipes installed or upgraded
57,000 xm
TRANSPORT

Railways constructed or upgraded

3,800 xm

EDUCATION

Classrooms built or upgraded*

398,000

SOURCE: ADB's Strategy a

 

RESPONDING TO THE NEEDS OF ASIA AND THE PACIFIC

9plan, ADB’s environment operational
directions (2013-2020), approved in 2013,
clarified ADB’s strong commitment to this
strategic priority.

In continuing its strong support for
regional cooperation, ADB operations
focused primarily on infrastructure
development, financial cooperation,
and regional public goods. Investments
in transport were complemented by
initiatives in trade facilitation.

SECTOR HIGHLIGHTS

In supporting clean energy investments

in 2013 (see Enhancing Support for Green
Growth, opposite), ADB provided its first
loans to privately owned power distribution
companies in India to develop renewable
and clean power. And in Armenia, it
promoted the use of natural gas as a
cleaner fuel and helped rehabilitate a
hydropower station.

 

ADB’s clean energy investments
reached $2.35 billion in 2013

ADB ANNUAL REPORT 2013

10

In the transport sector, a number of ADB
operations included road programs that
benefit lagging areas such as rural districts
in India, Indonesia, and Sri Lanka. Transport
operations included a renewed emphasis
on road maintenance. ADB also reviewed
road asset management practices and
initiated work on a knowledge product

to share cross-regional lessons from the
review. It emphasized the environmental
quality and social sustainability of road
investments, while targeted technical
assistance in South Asia and Southeast
Asia included an increased focus on

road safety.

ADB provided its first nonsovereign

loan for clean transportation, supporting
financial leasing companies in the People’s
Republic of China (PRC) in providing leases
for energy-efficient buses.

Urban operations focused on promoting
green, competitive, and inclusive cities.
ADB provided $140 million for the Urban
Climate Change Resilience Trust Fund to
strengthen resilience in secondary cities

in Asia. The Urban Financing Partnership

Facility provided $52 million for 25 projects
that included 1 guarantee, 9 technical
assistance grants, 8 investment grants,

and 7 direct charge activities. These
investments are expected to deliver
greater coverage and access to improved
infrastructure and services in drinking
water, sanitation, transport, and solid waste
management for about 200 million people.

In the water sector, ADB approved

$2 billion in projects relating to water and
sanitation, irrigation and drainage, and

river basin management. In 2013, ADB
entered into a partnership with the Bill and
Melinda Gates Foundation to establish the
$15 million Sanitation Financing Partnership
Trust Fund under the Water Financing

Partnership Facility, to scale up investment
in non-sewered sanitation management.

Through its nonsovereign operations,
ADB provided a loan for water supply in
Indonesia to help produce and distribute
clean water. It also provided several
nonsovereign loans in the PRC to build,
repair, or rehabilitate water distribution
facilities and to finance technology to
reuse wastewater. This will benefit close to
10 million people.

In the education sector, investments in
2013 amounted to $644 million, of which
35% financed technical and vocational
education and training and skills
development initiatives, including new
projects in the PRC and India. ADB also
launched a major partnership initiative for
innovation in education in the region, and
approved its first results-based lending
program—Sri Lanka’s Education Sector
Development Program.

In the finance sector, 2013 operations
focused on infrastructure finance in
Bangladesh and India, and expanded
access to finance in Kazakhstan, Mongolia
and Tajikistan. ADB also provided
financial intermediation loans to private
banks to expand access to finance for
small and medium-sized enterprises

in Azerbaijan, Cambodia, Georgia,
Mongolia, and Sri Lanka, and supported
$4 billion of trade through its ongoing
trade facilitation program. With regard
to regional activities, ADB continued to
support the development of a regionally
standardized bond issuance framework
in the Association of Southeast Asian
Nations (ASEAN), the PRC, Japan, andpan = ADB's Environment Operational Directions 2013-2020 identifies four mutually
7 supportive operational directions: promoting a shift to sustainable infrastructure,

a.’ investing in natural capital, strengthening environmental governance and
management capacity, and responding to climate change.

In 2013, ADB’s clean energy investments reached $2.35 billion. They will provide
1,390 megawatts of renewable energy generation capacity, save 1.987 terawatt-hours
of electricity and 4,691 terajoules in fuel per year, and reduce annual greenhouse gas
emissions by 7.06 million tons of carbon dioxide equivalent. Its first urban transport
project, the Lanzhou bus rapid transit system, commenced in the People’s Republic
re of China.

ADB continues to be a partner in regional cooperation initiatives on sustainable
management of critical ecosystems. For example, it initiated assessments such as
forest-cover mapping and land-use modeling in the Greater Mekong Subregion to
help decision makers understand the economic value of natural resources. Under an

4 initiative to protect reefs and fisheries in Southeast Asia’s Coral Triangle, technical
assistance projects helped local communities to manage marine-protected areas.

ADB supported activities that strengthened country safeguard systems
in 15 developing member countries and worked with the Asian Environmental
Compliance and Enforcement Network and the Asian Judges Network on
onment to help implement environmental laws in the region. It prepared good
practices guidance on air quality monitoring in Asian cities in partnership with Clean
Air Asia.

ADB established a comprehensive framework for managing climate risks in
infrastructure projects and continued to help build a regional climate projections
consortium and data facility that will deliver robust climate data and projections.

It also approved four new Global Environment Facility (GEF) grants in 2013.
Under an ADB-led sustainable transport and urban development program, the GEF
approved a $2.5 million grant for sustainable transport in Jiangxi Province.

ADB delivered a variety of knowledge products and services on building
resilience, accelerating energy efficiency, and examining the economics of climate
change in East Asia. It issued its fourth Sustainability Report. ADB also launched
the flagship regional knowledge sharing course for its developing member countries,
Asia Leadership Program on Sustainable Development and Climate Change, which
included environmental sustainability as a key component. With several partners,
it held regional knowledge-sharing events that included workshops on scaledup climate financing, the 8th Asia Clean Energy Forum, the Second High-Level
Workshop on Inland Waterway Transport, the Third Asia-Pacific Climate Change
Adaptation Forum, and the Asia Low Emission Development Strategies (LEDS)
Partnership Forum - Putting LEDS into Practice.

 

RESPONDING TO THE NEEDS OF ASIA AND THE PACIFIC

vbA DECADE OF

RESULTS 2004-2013
(Asia and the Pacific)

S)

 

FINANCE

Small and medium-sized enterprise loan
accounts opened / end borrowers reached

453,000

WATER

Land improved through irrigation services,
drainage, and flood management

1 5 Qraition HECTARES

ENERGY

Transmission lines installed or upgraded

31,000 m

SOURCE: ADB’s Strategy and Policy Deg

artment

 

 

the Republic of Korea (ASEAN+3); the
establishment of a regional infrastructure
bond fund; and integration of ASEAN
banking and capital markets.

In 2013, health sector operations included
initiatives to extend health services to
ethnic, poor, and marginalized populations
in the Lao People’s Democratic Republic
(Lao PDR), Mongolia, Myanmar, Pakistan,
Tajikistan, and Viet Nam. ADB launched
its first private sector operation in health,
establishing a Health Equity Fund to
encourage further development of the
sector. In addition, ADB established

the Regional Malaria and Other
Communicable Disease Threats Trust
Fund under the new Health Financing.

Partnership Facility, with the first
contribution from the United Kingdom.

ADB supported the agriculture and
natural resources sector through

$694.62 million in loans, $183.32 million

in grants, and $36.48 million in technical
assistance. Projects focused on improving
agricultural infrastructure, managing
watershed and water resources, conserving
biodiversity, developing agribusiness, and
building climate resilience. ADB supported
rural financial inclusion in Azerbaijan and
helped improve access to credit for rural
dairy farmers in Pakistan. It also provided
loans for cold chain infrastructure in

India and food processing facilities in
Kazakhstan.

Given the region’s growing population,
volatile food prices, scarce resources,
and climate change challenges, ADB

In 2013, ADB reviewed its
agriculture strategy to
strengthen its commitment to
regional food security

ADB ANNUAL REPORT 2013

12

reviewed its strategy for agriculture to
ensure its continued strong contribution
to inclusive growth and food security.

It prepared an operational plan for

the agriculture and natural resources

sector (2014-2020) to address these
challenges.

ADB approved a social protection
development project in Pakistan to
expand cash transfers to poor households,
including those led by women, and
developed a new Social Protection Index
to help DMCs monitor their expenditure
on social protection programs, and the
programs’ impact. It also approved a new
social protection operational plan to guide
its investments and knowledge work on
social protection, and provided grants to
assist communities affected by Typhoon
Yolanda (Haiyan) in the Philippines.

(See Swift Response to Super Typhoon,

page 4.)

ADB extended technical assistance for
anew pilot initiative in Bangladesh—a
crop insurance scheme to protect small
farmers—and interventions to improve
the capacity of social workers on social
assistance in the PRC, and strengthen
Mongolia’s health insurance system.

In 2013, ADB provided assistance to reduce
disaster risk and support the recovery
and reconstruction of disaster-affected
communities. Its post-disaster assistance
included grants totaling $6.5 million to
Cambodia, the Marshall Islands, Palau
and the Philippines under the Asia_
Pacific Disaster Response Fund; a loan of
$8.21 million to Samoa under the Asian
Development Fund Disaster Response
Facility; and a comprehensive package

to the Philippines for Typhoon Yolanda
(Haiyan) recovery work.

 

 

THEMATIC HIGHLIGHTS
Launched in 2013, ADB’s Gender
Equality and Women’s Empowerment

Operational Plan, 2013-2020 aims to deliver
better gender equality results from its

operations. About 55% of all operations and

59% of Asian Development Fund projects
were gender mainstreamed.

These initiatives helped support access
to secondary and technical vocational
education and training in the PRC,

India, and Nepal; cut women’s “time
poverty” through the provision of basic
infrastructure such as clean water,
sanitation, and rural infrastructure across
the region; and expanded economic
opportunities for women in IndonesiaCORBIS

Before, we went to the bottom of the road

and queued for 2 hours for water.

Water was available for only 1 to 2 hours per day.
We would fill five 10-liter containers and.bring
them back in a wheelbarrow. NOW we have a. ~ '
new connection that gives us warner all day

Silvina Suarez Jesus, a resident of Bairo Pite in Timor-Leste, w
has benefited from an ADB safe drinking water proje gs

‘

RESPONDING TO THE NEEDS OF ASIAANDSTHE PACIF|

  
 
 

|

ie ©
"SWIFT RESPONSE TO
SUPER TYPHOON

One of the most powerful storms on
record, Typhoon Yolanda (Haiyan),
struck the Philippines on 8 November,
claiming over 6,000 lives, inflicting
catastrophic damage and gaining
widespread international attention.
The typhoon caused over $13 billion of
infrastructure and agricultural losses
in the central and southern regions.
Three weeks earlier, a 7.2 magnitude
earthquake in the central region killed
over 220 people, injured nearly 1,000,
and damaged or destroyed thousands
of buildings.

ADB provided nearly $900 million

in assistance for immediate recovery
efforts and long-term reconstruction
and rehabilitation. ADB’s assistance will
help rebuild critical social infrastructure
such as schools and clinics, as well as
restore different sources of income

in rural communities. It will also build
the capacity of local governments to
implement risk-sensitive land-use
planning and disaster preparedness

in anticipation of future calamities.
ADB also supported the government in
assessing damages, losses, and needs
across various sectors. ADB’s work

is centered around Reconstruction
Assistance on Yolanda, the government’s
strategic plan for recovery and
reconstruction, which coordinates
assistance from all its partners.

publications

 

ADB ANNUAL REPORT 2013

14

Kazakhstan, the Lao PDR, Nepal,
Uzbekistan, and Viet Nam.

ADB projects also reduced women’s
vulnerability to climate change, crises,

and other risks in Cambodia, the PRC,
Indonesia, Nepal, and Tajikistan; and
increased women’s influence in decision
making in Bangladesh, Cambodia, India, the
Lao PDR, the Philippines, and Sri Lanka.

 

 

 

ADB continued to increase its support

for private sector development and
private sector operations in 2013, including
promotion of public-private partnerships
in its operations. The support included
capacity development and training, policy
advice, preparing and developing projects
for private participation, and delivering
financial assistance to targeted sectors.
(See Developing the Private Sector, page 37.)

LEVERAGING ADB RESOURCES

To maximize its development impact, ADB
increased its efforts to boost investments
through cofinancing and private sector
operations. Guided by Strategy 2020,
ADB has been intensifying its efforts to
ensure cofinancing exceeds the value of
its own project financing. It has also been
increasing its nonsovereign operations,
so that by 2020 they will account for 25%
of ordinary capital resource approvals. In
2013, ADB’s own funding of $14.38 billion
leveraged $6.65 billion of direct valueadded cofinancing. This was made up of
42% commercial cofinancing and 58%
official cofinancing.

Official cofinancing. Despite fiscal strains
in many donor countries, ADB received a
record level of commitments in 2013 for
grants and concessional loans, totaling
$3.85 billion from development partners

to cofinance 45 investment projects

and 163 technical assistance projects.

In cooperation with Canada and the
United Kingdom, and the Bill and Melinda
Gates and Rockefeller foundations,

ECONOMICS OF CLIMATE CHANGE IN EAST ASIA
Launched in October 2013, the book examines how strategies for adapting to climate change up to 2050 can be
combined with measures to reduce greenhouse gas emissions, and estimates costs for mitigation options in various
sectors and policies including regional carbon markets. The book was then launched in Beijing, Seoul, Tokyo, and
Ulaanbaatar, and presented at a United Nations conference on climate change in Warsaw. Read it at adb.org/

ADB established five new trust funds to
promote integrated regional disaster risk
management, private investment in climate
mitigation and adaptation, innovative
sanitation solutions, health initiatives, and
urban climate change resilience. Framework
agreements signed by ADB with the
Eurasian Development Bank and Agence

Frangaise de Développement will make
available $2 billion for cofinancing ADB
projects in 2013-2016.

Commercial cofinancing, publicprivate partnership, and private

sector operations. ADB continued to
support financial intermediaries to advance
financial inclusion, and to finance private
sector projects emphasizing renewable

and clean energy. @CORBIS

 

eN

PROMOTING
ENVIRONMENTALLY
SUSTAINABLE
GROWTH
IN ASIA AND

SUPPORTING CLIMATE- “tN
FRIENDLY INVESTMENTS

In helping developing member countries address the causes and consequences of climate
change, ADB mobilized finance for capacity building, knowledge development, enabling
plans and policies, and climate-smart investments.

In 2013, ADB approved $3.4 billion of climate financing, with its own resources
providing $2.9 billion and external resources contributing $435 million. External resources
included multilateral funds such as the Climate Investment Funds and the Global
Environment Facility, and ADB-managed trust funds including the Clean Energy Financing
Partnership Facility and carbon funds.

Of the approved financing, $2.4 billion is expected to contribute to mitigating climate
change and $966.6 million to adaptation. Approved mitigation projects include solar and
wind power generation, energy efficiency, waste-to-energy, rail, urban mass transport,
forest conservation, and watershed management. Adaptation finance will support flood
and drought management, climate-proofing infrastructure, and mainstreaming climate
resilience in planning. Pilot programs for climate resilience are being implemented in
Bangladesh, Cambodia, Nepal, Papua New Guinea, Samoa, Tajikistan, Tonga, and the
Pacific region.

ADB also continued to mobilize private capital for climate-friendly investments.
About $670 million of its mitigation investments in 2013 supported private sector clean
energy projects. It also established the $81.5 million Canadian Climate Fund for the Private
Sector in Asia that will blend concessional resources with ADB’s private sector operations
for both mitigation and adaptation.

Additional concessional financing raised by ADB for adaptation through the Urban.
Climate Change Resilience Trust Fund and Integrated Disaster Risk Management Fund
will provide about $140 million from the Department for International Development of the
United Kingdom and the Rockefeller Foundation, and $9.7 million from the Government
of Canada. ADB replenished its own Climate Change Fund with $9 million.CENTRAL AND
WEST ASIA

Afghanistan, Armenia, Azerbaijan, Georgia, Kazakhstan,
the Kyrgyz Republic, Pakistan, Tajikistan, Turkmenistan, Uzbekistan

The region’s economic outlook stayed
broadly favorable in 2013. Inflationary
pressures remained subdued, largely as

a result of stable international food and
fuel prices. Economic growth reflected the
performance of the region’s main trading
partners—the eurozone, the People’s
Republic of China (PRC), and the Russian
Federation. Meeting energy needs remains
a major concern for the region, as ongoing
electricity shortages in Pakistan and
Tajikistan demonstrate.

Some countries recorded relatively strong
economic performance on the back

of higher public investment, stronger
gold production, and robust remittance
inflows. Azerbaijan, whose economy
expanded by 4% in 2013, benefited from
good results in the non-oil sector and
public investment. The Kyrgyz Republic
grew at 7.5% compared with -0.9% in the
previous year, while Tajikistan’s growth
rate remained comparatively high at 7%,
stimulated by remittances.

Many member countries continue to
face challenges linked to an overreliance
on commodities and an economic

base that needs diversification.
Azerbaijan and Kazakhstan, for instance,
have oil- and gas-based economies,
while the Kyrgyz Republic relies

heavily on gold. Policy challenges include
maintaining macroeconomic stability,
strengthening competitiveness and

 

Beveloom

The Kyrgyz Republic»

 

adb.org/publications

ADB ANNUAL REPORT 2013

16

integration with the global economy,
and promoting reforms to strengthen
growth across larger parts of the economy.

A DECADE OF

RESULTS 2004-2013
(Ose, e AED)

®

To help ensure that the benefits of
inclusive, environmentally sustainable
growth are widely shared, ADB continued
to support the region’s efforts to improve
energy security and efficiency, increase
connectivity, upgrade irrigation facilities,
expand urban and municipal infrastructure,
improve the health of mothers and
children, and encourage entrepreneurship
among women.

 

ENERGY

Households connected to electricity

333,000

FINANCE

Microfinance loans accounts opened /
end borrowers reached

ZA MILLION

 

OPERATIONAL HIGHLIGHTS

In 2013, new lending assistance to the
region reached $4.13 billion, comprising
$3.56 billion in ADB financing and

$567 million in cofinancing from
development partners. Technical
assistance totaled about $34.89 million
to provide advisory services and support
capacity development, regional
cooperation and integration, research and
development, and project preparation.

==
ADB priorities included improving —_—
connectivity, especially in landlocked
countries, promoting regional
cooperation, facilitating trade, and
helping the private sector become more
competitive. Investments in power
infrastructure directly contributed to

a better outlook for energy efficiency
and security.

SOURCE: ADB's Strategy and Policy Department

 

BUILDING A BRIGHTER FUTURE IN CENTRAL ASIA

The Kyrgyz Republic has led the region in market reforms and was the first country in the Commonwealth of
Independent States to be accepted into the World Trade Organization. But it faces ongoing development challenges,
including the need to recover from the internal and external shocks of recent years and attract more private
investment. The Kyrgyz Republic: Building a Brighter Future in the Heart of Central Asia discusses solutions

to these issues and reviews ADB’s contribution to development and fighting poverty in the country. Read it atIn Pakistan, ADB approved two electricitygeneration projects totaling $1.07 billion.
These projects are Jamshoro Power
Generation Project for $900 million and
Power Distribution Enhancement
Investment Program-Tranche 4 for $167.2
million. In Afghanistan, it supported the
reconstruction of a106-kilometer (km)
section of the Kabul-Jalalabad road, 50 km
of the Sharan-Angoor Ada road, 33 km

of the Lashkar Gah-Gereshk road, and

75 km of the Doshi-Bamyan road. These
programs will provide better connectivity,
create jobs, and facilitate the movement
of goods.

 

ADB approved the third tranche of a

$500 million multitranche financing facility
for Armenia in 2013 and will support
reconstruction and widening of a 46 km
two-lane road between Talin and Gyumri.

Reducing poverty through inclusive growth
is the goal of the Kyrgyz Republic country
partnership strategy 2013-2017, which

the Board endorsed in August 2013. ADB
continues to support energy sector reforms,
rehabilitate generation and transmission
infrastructure, and upgrade roads.

ADB supports the development of

the Kyrgyz Republic’s Integrated Tax
Administration System, which is expected
to reduce the burden for businesses that
have low risk of noncompliance.

SHARING LESSONS LEARNED

ADB must share lessons learned from its
development projects to ensure it makes
long-term progress in reducing poverty.

In April 2013, ADB and the Central Bank
of Armenia held a seminar in Tsaghkadzor,
Armenia, which drew 28 government
officials from eight countries. Regulatory
experts shared practical techniques for
evaluating enterprise risk management
and analyzing the financial strength of a
consolidated organization.

 

oN

ae) enn Icy
ENVIRONMENTALLY
SUSTAINABLE
GROWTH
IN ASIA AND
Atala eae

ADB INCORPORATES THE PRINCIPLES of environmental sustainability in investments across
the region.

EMBRACING SUSTAINABILITY
IN ALL PROJECTS

ADB shares knowledge on climate change adaptation and mitigation across the
region, and incorporates the principles of sustainability, energy efficiency, and
pollution reduction in its investments. In 2013, it approved eight projects to promote
the more efficient use of resources and environmentally sustainable growth.

Among these was a $150 million loan to upgrade water supply and sewerage
systems in Aghjabedi and Nakhchivan, Azerbaijan, while in Georgia, a $73 million
urban transport project will boost the efficiency and reliability of urban transport
services in greater Tbilisi and Anaklia. In Tajikistan, a $10 million green finance
project will provide credit for households and microenterprises for energy-efficient
and environment-friendly homes, and a $21.6 million project will increase Pyanj
River Basin communities’ resilience to climate vulnerability and change.

Three projects were approved for Uzbekistan: $110 million in financing for a
100-megawatt solar power plant in Samarkand Province, a $42 million water supply
and sanitation services project in Fergana Province, and a $69 million solid waste
management improvement project in the city of Tashkent. These initiatives will help
increase renewable energy generation in Samarkand; ensure a safe, reliable, and
sustainable sewerage system in Fergana; and improve solid waste management
in Tashkent.

Also in Uzbekistan, a $64 million land improvement project in Kashkadarya,
Navoi, and Bukhara provinces, approved in 2006, has reduced soil salinity and
increased land productivity by rehabilitating the drainage system.

A $115 million renewable energy development sector investment program in
Pakistan will increase the production and use of clean energy by installing
four small and medium-sized hydropower stations in rivers or canals in Punjab
and two hydropower stations in the province of Khyber Pakhtunkhwa.

ADB supported workshops in Azerbaijan and Kazakhstan on policies and
technologies to reduce greenhouse gas emissions and to show decision makers how
to estimate their costs.

 

CENTRAL AND WEST ASIA

171,600 HOMES IN THE
KYRGYZ REPUBLIC
REBUILT TO BETTER
STANDARDS

Community violence in the Osh and
Jalal-Abad regions of the Kyrgyz
Republic in 2010 left 1,900 houses
damaged or destroyed. ADB provided
a $28 million emergency assistance
program to aid recovery and
reconstruction, In 14 months,

more than 1,600 houses such as this
one were rebuilt to higher quality
standards than before.

 

In Tashkent, Uzbekistan, in August
2013, ADB piloted a series of training
modules on supply chain management
and logistics. Members of the Central
Asia Regional Economic Cooperation
CAREC) Federation of Carrier and

Forwarder Associations designed and
delivered the courses, in which lecturers
from five member associations shared their
knowledge and experience with participants
from the 10 CAREC member countries.

In November 2013, the ADB Institute
helped organize a workshop in Tokyo to
assist participants from CAREC member
countries in understanding global supply
chains and production networks.

REGIONAL CONNECTIVITY
INITIATIVES BOOST TRADE

Trade among CAREC member countries
has grown at double-digit rates during the
last decade, and ADB and the CAREC
Program again made steady progress

in priority sectors. Road construction
exceeded targets, rail construction
continued to assume a larger share of the
portfolio, trade links continued to improve,
and countries simplified their trade regimes
and shared knowledge.

Tajikistan became a member of the World
Trade Organization (WTO) in 2013, while
Afghanistan and Kazakhstan have come
closer to accession. The WTO participated
as an observer for the first time at the

Trade among CAREC countries is
growing at double-digit rates

ADB ANNUAL REPORT 2013

18

18th Trade Policy Sector Coordinating
Committee meeting in Almaty, Kazakhstan
in June 2013, and agreed to partner with
CAREC through WTO's Institute for
Training and Technical Cooperation.

In the transport sector, an ADB-supported
railway has boosted trade between Mazare-Sharif in Afghanistan and Hairatan in
Uzbekistan by reducing transport costs

by $0.08 per ton/km, cut travel time

by an hour, and reduced heavy-vehicle
traffic on the alternative road by 35%,

reducing carbon dioxide emissions. About
7 million people have benefited from the
completed project.

More must be done to boost trade for
regional growth. Logistics facilities such

as inland container depots are needed to
reduce clearance time for goods at borders.
CAREC corridors must be aligned to new
routes, and long-distance multimodal
transport services combining road and rail
must be developed.

To this end, the refined CAREC Transport
and Trade Facilitation Strategy 2020

calls for a more integrated approach

to improving transport and logistics
infrastructure and services.

ADB provided $18 million through the
CAREC Program to improve border
services in the Kyrgyz Republic and
Tajikistan, to reduce border-crossing times
and associated costs, thus further helping
to increase trade. Technical assistance
approved in 2013 will help modernize
border-crossing points in Pakistan in
Chaman and Torkham, at the border with
Afghanistan, and in Wagha, at the border
with India.

In the energy sector, ADB worked with
governments and development partners to
establish multiple power interconnections
between Central Asia and South Asia
through Afghanistan. Investment in
energy since 2003 has amounted to

$4.15 billion, 10.7% of which was for three
ADB initiatives in 2013: a north-south
transmission project and an energy sector
development program in Afghanistan, and
the $136 million Golovnaya hydropower
plant rehabilitation project in Tajikistan.

LIFTING LIVING STANDARDS
THROUGH INCLUSIVE AND
ENVIRONMENTALLY
SUSTAINABLE GROWTH

ADB promotes inclusive and
environmentally sustainable growth
by supporting women in starting and
running their own small businesses,
expanding access to energy for the
poor, and developing climate resilience
in infrastructure.

In Tajikistan, a $10 million ADB grant
for a “green finance” project will help
families nationwide increase their accessto electricity and support the more
efficient use of energy by financing
“smart” solutions such as energy-efficient
roofs and doors, double-glazed windows,
insulated ceilings and floors, advanced
water pumps, and solar water heaters.

ADB approved a project to assist women
micro-entrepreneurs in the Kyrgyz
Republic, financed by ADB’s Japan Fund
for Poverty Reduction. It aims to improve
living standards for women in rural areas
and small towns by giving them access toa
variety of new financial services.

More than 100,000 people in Tajikistan

will benefit from an ADB climate resilience
project, approved in 2013, aimed at

reducing the expected adverse effects

of climate change in 59 villages in the

Pyanj River Basin. This plan will increase
communities’ access to water services and
provide them with affordable financial
resources to develop more efficient boas .
agricultural practices. | "%

With the help of ADB loans,

we have renovated more than
5,400 locations in Navoi Province
in just 6 months. As awoman, |_am\
happy that we will be healthier eEAST ASIA

The People’s Republic of China, Mongolia

After 3 decades of rapid economic
expansion (over 9% annual average over
the past decade) and having significantly
reduced poverty and lifted living standards,
the People’s Republic of China (PRC)

has transformed itself into an upper
middle-income country. Its landlocked
neighbor, Mongolia, is also growing rapidly,
at over 10% annually in the past 3 years.
Despite their economic expansion, both
countries confront significant development
challenges, many of which are associated
with economic restructuring, inequality,
regional and rural-urban disparity, and
environmental degradation.

In the PRC, growth moderated to 7.7%
year-on-year in 2013, partly as a result of
government policies designed to reduce
excess production capacity and deepen
structural reforms. Along with this strategic
policy shift, the economy is moving from
credit-fueled and investment-driven
growth to market-oriented expansion
based on domestic consumption and
services. Ongoing development issues

in the PRC include the need to protect

the environment, modernize the fiscal
system, improve local government finances,
liberalize the finance sector, encourage
private investment in state-owned
enterprises, and tackle income and
regional inequality by boosting social
services. These issues were a key focus of a
blueprint for reforms adopted at the Third
Plenum of the 18th Central Committee

of the Communist Party of China in
November 2013.

 

ADB ANNUAL REPORT 2013

20

Mongolia is the fastest growing economy
in East Asia, expanding at 11.5% year-onyear as a result of expansionary fiscal and
monetary policies and the start of copper
production at the Oyu Tolgoi mine.

Yet, foreign direct investment (FDI) fell by
46.8% in 2013, and increasing balance-ofpayment pressures caused central bank
reserves to fall and the togrog to depreciate.
FDI is expected to improve after the
enactment of a new law on FDI. However,
significant investment in human capital
and infrastructure is needed to diversify
the economy, reduce its vulnerability

to external shocks, strengthen crossborder links, and improve access to public
services such as health, drinking water,
and sanitation.

OPERATIONAL HIGHLIGHTS

n the PRC, ADB operations are evolving
with the rapidly changing needs of the
client, supporting initiatives with special
‘ocus on innovation, value addition,

and maximized development impact.

n 2013, ADB's lending assistance to the
PRC totaled $1.54 billion, comprising 12
projects across four priority sectors: natural
resources and agriculture, energy, transport,
and urban and social sectors. ADB’s
cofinancing partners included the Exportmport Bank of China for $75.58 million, the
China General Nuclear Power Corporation
‘or $96.68 million, and the Global

Environment Facility for $3.65 million.

The transport projects are strengthening
connectivity between and within provinces

 

 

PLANNING THE PRC’S CITIES OF THE FUTURE
Strategic Options for Urbanization in the People’s Republic of China: Key Findings examines the People’s Republic of
China’s many and unprecedented urbanization challenges, and suggests ways to improve the urban environment
through changes in the design, financing, administration, and social integration of cities. The report, comprising
four parts, is based on a policy study for a cities plan that will set out development policies and guidelines over the

coming decade. Read it at adb.org/publications

A DECADE OF

RESULTS 2004-2013
(East Asia)

S

 

ENERGY

Reduction of Greenhouse Gas Emissions
21. 5 MILLION TONS
(carbon dioxide equivalent per year)
WATER

Land improved through irrigation services,

drainage, and flood management

11 Quantion HECTARESand rural and urban areas, and supporting
improved road maintenance. ADB is
helping to introduce climate-friendly
public transport and reduce rural-urban
inequalities, and is proposing initiatives
to encourage sound natural resource
management. Urban infrastructure
projects, along with expanded support
for technical and vocational education
and training, are supporting inclusive
development and the creation of new
jobs for migrant workers. ADB has helped
initiate tariff reforms for water and
sanitation and prepare public-private
partnership projects that are financially
viable for lenders. It is also supporting a
concentrated solar thermal plant, among
the first in the country.

 

n Mongolia, ADB approved $90 million

in loans for three projects in 2013, which
include $50 million to improve municipal
services in underdeveloped areas of
Ulaanbaatar, $20 million for a project

to increase access to finance for the

poor by modernizing payment systems,
and $20 million for a food stamp program
and a better social welfare and health
insurance system. These efforts will help
to improve the targeting of social welfare
benefits, link social welfare beneficiaries
to employment services, and update

the database of poor households. ADB
was also instrumental in establishing the
foundation for public-private partnerships
by supporting policy and law reforms

and transaction advisory services for

a combined heat and power plant.
Cofinancing partners in Mongolia included
the European Investment Bank and the
Urban Environmental Infrastructure

Fund under the Urban Financing.
Partnership Facility and the Japan Fund for
Poverty Reduction.

SHARING DEVELOPMENT
EXPERIENCES

Knowledge sharing is a particularly
important component of ADB’s support
for the PRC as it addresses the challenge

PROMOTING
ENVIRONMENTALLY
SUSTAINABLE
GROWTH
LSE
Bie Olle

ADB SUPPORTS THE PROMOTION AND DEVELOPMENT of waste-to-energy plants using clean
technology in various locations in the PRC.

ADDRESSING THE REGION’S
ENVIRONMENT CHALLENGES

ADB is actively supporting the People’s Republic of China (PRC) and Mongolia
to reduce their reliance on fossil fuel, contribute substantially to the global fight
against climate change, and address the environmental challenges arising from
rapid economic growth and urbanization. This assistance includes the promotion
of cutting-edge clean energy technology, integrated rural-urban environmental
protection and conservation of natural resources, and low-carbon urban public
transport.

A $150 million ADB loan will fund in Qinghai Province the first state-of-the-art
renewable energy technology—for concentrated solar thermal power—to generate
electricity. This is the first concentrated solar power plant to be piloted in a cold
climate and is expected to have wider application in the PRC and other developing
member countries. It will support the PRC’s goal of increasing the renewable energy
share in total energy consumption to 15% by 2020. The project will produce 197
gigawatt-hours of clean electricity annually by 2017.

In the urban sector, ADB has extended support for integrated rural-urban
environmental protection projects. These incorporate new systems for wastewater,
sludge, and solid waste management; flood management with early warning systems;
and groundwater protection. ADB is also helping develop an improved policy and
regulatory framework for sewage and household solid-waste management in rural
areas in the PRC.

In 2013, ADB introduced climate change impact assessments in a number of its
projects to promote the development of climate-resilient infrastructure in the PRC
and Mongolia.

In Yichang City in the PRC’s Hubei Province, ADB is supporting a climatefriendly rapid bus transit system. The successful operation of rapid transit buses in
Lanzhou City in Gansu, PRC, has helped raise awareness of this system as a model for
sustainable urban transport. In addition, ADB promoted green transport through a
private sector loan for clean bus leasing.

After years of policy support and pilot-testing of market-based instruments for
conserving natural resources and protecting the environment in East Asia, ADB is
supporting the establishment of a regional knowledge hub in Beijing for systematic
sharing of experiences in green growth among developing member countries.

 

EAST ASIA

21CONVERTING A CITY’S
WASTE INTO ENERGY

The People’s Republic of China
produces 220 million tons of

municipal solid waste annually, and
treating it has become a challenge for
many cities. In Suzhou, a waste-toenergy plant supported by ADB burns
all the city’s 3,500 tons of garbage
daily. After incineration, liquid and
slag residue are safely treated and
recycled. The plant, which has steam
generators, produces 350 million
kilowatt-hours of electricity a year

to light homes and businesses.

T FACT

of transformation from an upper middleincome to a high-income country. In
Mongolia, much knowledge sharing is
aimed at helping the country manage its
natural resources more effectively. ADB
produced 58 knowledge products and
services and initiated 59 knowledge-sharing
activities in the PRC and Mongolia in 2013.

A significant publication in 2013, Economics
of Climate Change in East Asia, examines
how strategies for adapting to climate
change can be combined with measures

to reduce greenhouse gas emissions in

the PRC, Japan, the Republic of Korea,
and Mongolia. The book was launched in
Beijing, Seoul, Tokyo, and Ulaanbaatar, and
presented at a United Nations conference
on climate change in Warsaw.

The Regional Knowledge Sharing Initiative,
launched in 2012 by ADB and the PRC’s
Ministry of Finance, played a major role in
disseminating development experiences
among developing member countries
(DMCs). In 2013, at the fifth PRC-ADB
Knowledge Sharing Platform on Technical
and Vocational Education held in Beijing,
more than 80 participants from 10 DMCs
shared their experiences on matching
skills with jobs as a way of generating
employment for the disadvantaged.

BOOSTING CROSS-BORDER
CONNECTIVITY

Since 2006, ADB has supported regional
cooperation between the PRC and
Mongolia under the Central Asia Regional
Economic Cooperation (CAREC

ADB trained migrant workers
to meet the PRC’s growing
demand for skilled labor

ADB ANNUAL REPORT 2013

22

Program, focusing on customs, transport,
and coordinated development of border
areas and towns to improve crossborder connectivity. The completion of

a regional road under CAREC in 2013,
linking Mongolia to the Asian Highway
Network and the PRC at the border town
of Zamyn-Uud, will further facilitate trade
and diversify Mongolia’s economy. Other
activities in 2013 included refinement

of the CAREC Transport and Trade
Facilitation Strategy and action plan,
development of an operational manual

for implementing a Mongolia-PRC road
transport agreement, the launch of a joint
control initiative for transboundary animal
diseases, and further strengthening of joint
customs control through the electronic
exchange of cargo manifests. The latter
has reduced clearance time at bordercrossing points and improved compliance
in customs declarations. ADB facilitated
signing of a memorandum of understanding
between the PRC and Viet Nam on jointly
developing cross-border economic zones.
Implementation of the memorandum is
expected to boost cross-border trade and
investment, contributing to development
of the Greater Mekong Subregion’s NorthSouth Economic Corridor.

PROMOTING INCLUSIVE

GROWTH FOR THE POOR

ADB supports inclusive growth by creating
economic opportunities through projects
to improve transport links, integrated ruralurban infrastructure and social services,
and technical and vocational education and
training. In particular, it seeks to expand
economic opportunities for the poor

and migrant workers. Social protection is
another critical element of ADB’s support
for inclusive growth.

In the PRC, new transport projects,
approved in 2013 totaling $610 million, will
improve energy-efficient rail connectivity
in the less-developed southwest region
(Chongqing Municipality and Guizhou
Province), introduce a high-quality urban
public transport system in Hubei, support
road development in the Inner Mongolia
Autonomous Region, and establish a
sustainable road maintenance system in
Yunnan Province.

Two ADB technical and vocational
education and training projects in
Hunan Province and Guangxi Zhuang
Autonomous Region, approved in 2013,represent a significant shift of ADB
assistance to the social sector. In particular,
an improved vocational education system
and training of migrant workers will help
meet the growing demand for skilled labor
as the economy becomes more urbanized
and services-oriented.

In Mongolia, the multiyear investment
program, approved in 2013, will help
improve infrastructure and municipal
services in the capital city’s less-developed
areas. It will include the expansion of
roads, water supply, and wastewater
treatment and heating systems. A

$20 million new project will support social
welfare reforms, improve the food stamp
program, and broaden the coverage of
and improve access to health insurance
through information and communication
technology.

In the PRC, ADB will provide policy and
advisory support for reform of the urban
pension system to address challenges
associated with an aging population.

’'m a driver, and the new
well-constructed road will save
me time and reduce the cost

for vehicle repair. In 2013, | and
20 other people from our soum
worked at the road construction
... we thank ADB for providing
these jobs and supporting us
and our families.

—Mongolian truck driver Banzragch Bat-Erdene,
commenting on a road project linking his country to the PRC
and the Russian FederationPACIFIC

The Cook Islands, Fiji, Kiribati, the Marshall Islands, the Federated States of Micronesia, Nauru,

n 2013, resource-rich countries in the
Pacific experienced a slower pace of growth
than is usual due to lower commodity
prices and weak global growth. Agriculture,
mineral, and forestry export earnings of
the region’s economies fell, contributing

to a decline in government revenues.
However, several smaller developing
member countries (DMCs) benefited from
rising returns from their fisheries, enabled
by regional cooperation around access

to resources. Tourism has also continued
to grow.

Development is particularly challenging

in Pacific island countries, which have
small populations, limited resources,

and weak capacity. Growth levels of
1%-2% are common in these nations, and
inding a way to create jobs and provide
social services has long been a concern.
Agriculture and tourism continue to be the
stronger performing sectors—but scale and
isolation pose severe constraints. Many of
ADB’s fragile and conflict-afflicted states
are in the Pacific, where climate change
remains a serious threat, and a critical
development issue.

 

ADB has focused on increasing
connectivity within the Pacific, and to
countries outside the region, through

its investments in ports, airports, roads,
information and communication
technology infrastructure, and efforts to
facilitate trade. Improving connectivity
remains key to overcoming isolation and
will enable these island countries to seize

a Calat

 

ADB ANNUAL REPORT 2013

24

Palau, Papua New Guinea, Samoa, Solomon Islands, Timor-Leste, Tonga, Tuvalu, Vanuatu

opportunities provided by their fastgrowing neighbors in Asia.

Managing limited financial resources
effectively is a critical development
challenge and key to more rapid and
sustained growth in the Pacific. In 2013,
ADB and development partners put
particular emphasis on public financial
management. ADB has helped build
capacity in managing public finances,
promoted essential reforms, and supported
the sharing of useful knowledge. Its wide
support for renewable energy projects can
improve the fiscal position of Pacific island
countries by reducing their reliance on fuel
imports to generate power.

These projects demonstrate Pacific DMCs’
commitment to addressing climate change
and promoting environmentally sustainable
growth. ADB plans are in place to support
adaptation to climate change, and to
ensure that ADB-financed roads, bridges,
water supply systems, and buildings are
climate proofed.

OPERATIONAL HIGHLIGHTS

ADB assistance to the Pacific region

totaled $437.8 million for 15 loan and grant
projects (including the Asia Pacific Disaster
Response Fund) and $62.6 million in
technical assistance for 33 projects. Lending
and grant assistance, supplemented with
$24.8 million of cofinancing, were mainly for
transport (63%), energy (22%), water supply
and sanitation (6%), and public sector
management (5%). The most support

COUNTING THE COST OF CLIMATE CHANGE
This ADB study, Economics of Climate Change in the Pacific, quantifies the costs of the adverse impacts of climate
change on island nations. It draws on regional and sector models to discuss the effects in selected economies
and industries—including agriculture, fisheries, tourism, coral reefs, and human health. It presents policy
recommendations to mitigate these impacts. Read it at adb.org/publications

A DECADE OF

RESULTS 2004-2013
(Pacific)

@

 

SS

TRANSPORT

Beneficiaries from road projects*
685,000
FINANCE

 

Microfinance loans ac
opened / end borrow

185,000

counts
reachedwent to Papua New Guinea (PNG), which
received $305.7 million, followed by TimorLeste, which received $50 million.

ADB's strategic focus, set out in its Pacific
Approach 2010-2014, aims to support
inclusive and environmentally sustainable
growth, good governance, and regional
cooperation and integration. In line with
this approach, its operations in 2013
continued to help Pacific DMCs develop
robust, sustainable, and climate-resilient
infrastructure; increase their capacity to
improve their fiscal positions; and manage
public investments more efficiently.

Transport connections are critical in
remote and mountainous areas of PNG.
ADB approved a $130 million civil aviation
investment program, which will ensure
all-weather access for passengers and
businesses to air transport services at 14
domestic airports. The work will include
improving infrastructure such as terminals
and providing fire trucks and standby
power supplies. It will also upgrade
navigational and communication systems
to international standards.

Another ADB-supported initiative in PNG,
a $109 million roads investment program,
will improve maintenance arrangements
for 500 kilometers of national roads to
help make them more accessible and

safe. ADB is promoting good governance
through policy-based operations in Samoa,
Solomon Islands, and Tonga to strengthen
their fiscal positions and improve delivery
of public investment and services.

Based on acommon policy matrix, these
operations are led by governments and
supported by other development partners.
In Samoa, a program approved in 2013
aims to boost long-term fiscal stability by
enhancing the economic contribution of
state-owned enterprises and strengthening
public financial management systems.

ADB's Private Sector Development
Initiative has contributed to improving

PROMOTING
ENVIRONMENTALLY
SUSTAINABLE
GROWTH

IN ASIA AND
Biel ae ges

ADB IS HELPING GOVERNMENTS to ensure buildings and other infrastructure can withstand
natural hazards.

INVESTING IN RESILIENT
INFRASTRUCTURE

The small, isolated islands that make up the Pacific developing member countries are
vulnerable to the impacts of natural hazards and climate change. Their economies
and key industries such as agriculture, forestry, fisheries, and tourism depend
heavily on the environment. Systems and procedures to protect the environment are
therefore critical for their development.

In 2013, ADB promoted environmentally sustainable growth by investing
in renewable energy, climate-proofing of critical infrastructure, building more
sustainable and resilient communities, and capacity building for sustainable
development in 2013. Technical assistance grants are strengthening country
safeguards and staff skills in environment ministries, assisting them to apply
environmental impact assessment and monitoring to investment projects in Kiribati,
Papua New Guinea, and Solomon Islands.

In Yap state, Federated States of Micronesia, an ADB-supported project
will reduce fossil fuel consumption by converting 22% of power generation into
renewable energy through wind and solar power connected to the grid, and through
better supply-side efficiency. In Tonga, a new solar power plant on Vava’u and solar
mini grids on outer islands will replace half a million liters of diesel fuel annually and
provide clean energy to 400 households. In Samoa, new run-of-river hydropower
schemes will produce energy with minimal environmental impact. The six schemes
to be developed in Samoa will replace the use of 3.6 million liters of diesel per year.

ADB is also helping governments to ensure that public facilities such as
government buildings, schools, health centers, roads, bridges, and water supply
systems can withstand the effects of climate change and natural hazards. In
Solomon Islands, ongoing projects incorporate adaptation measures such as raising
road levels, sealing more roads, installing coastal protection, and building larger and
stronger bridges and wharves.

In Timor-Leste, ADB is supporting the design and construction of roads that are
able to withstand more frequent and intense weather events. A regional program
for climate resilience covering 11 Pacific countries, and a strategic program to boost
climate resilience in Tonga, both fully financed by the ADB Strategic Climate Fund,
will build capacity to adapt to climate change and manage disaster risks in the region.

 

PACIFIC

252
8
=
é
gO
€
&
%
8
z
$

 

BOOSTING HEALTH
SERVICES FOR
PAPUA NEW
GUINEA’S POOR

Though 9 in 10 of its people live

in the countryside, the rural
health system in Papua New
Guinea has been in decline since
the 1980s. An estimated 40% of
rural health facilities have closed
or are not fully functioning. An
ADB-supported rural primary
health services project in Milne
Bay aims to make a difference.
When complete, the project’s first
community health post will provide
new medical facilities for the local
Bubuleta community as well as
staff housing and vehicles.

 

governance in the Pacific. For example, it
supported the update of the Companies
Act Regulations in Samoa in 2013 and
helped procure and install of the country’s
electronic business registry. It approved
the third phase of the initiative with

$30.5 million, supported by cofinancing
from Australia and New Zealand.

 

ADB has refined its approach to Pacific
operations by incorporating lessons

from its experience in the region.
Recommendations of the ADB-Australian
Aid high-level forum on Building Resilience
to Fragility in Asia and the Pacific, held in
June 2013, are informing its operations in
fragile and conflict-affected countries.

OVERCOMING CONSTRAINTS

ON REGIONAL LINKS

Gaps in the network of regional
infrastructure, especially in transport,
energy and communications, and
unsuitable legal, institutional, and
regulatory frameworks, continue to impede
the economic growth of small, isolated
Pacific islands.

Key areas of ADB support for regional
cooperation and integration include
pooling provision of government services
such as auditing, across several countries;
harmonizing the business environment by
updating and standardizing laws; creating
regional and extra-regional transport and
communication networks; and forming
partnerships with academics and donor

organizations to analyze key regional issues.

ADB is helping strengthen trade links
and crucial lifelines for isolated DMCs

ADB has significantly expanded
its operations in the Pacific, with a
presence in almost all DMCs

ADB ANNUAL REPORT 2013

26

through investments in port, aviation,
and information and communication
technology. It is making sound progress in
the project to upgrade Lae Port in PNG.
In August 2013, the ADB-supported
Tonga submarine broadband project

was completed, allowing access to faster
internet speeds.

Regional cooperation can help overcome
capacity constraints. ADB’s support in 2013
for a team of auditors from Kiribati, Nauru:
and Tuvalu is helping these countries
conduct timely government audits while
building the capacity of national auditors.

SUSTAINED GROWTH

TO BENEFIT ALL

ADB’s operations focused on removing key
development bottlenecks to help countries
boost growth and reduce poverty.

Some projects improve health indicators
of the poor and women, and develop
safety net programs for vulnerable people.
The Koror-Airai Sanitation Project in
Palau, approved in 2013, will improve
health outcomes as well as enhance the
tourism potential of the country. Water
supply projects in Fiji and Timor-Leste are
increasing the availability of safe drinking
water in underserved areas and reducing
the incidence of waterborne diseases.

In education, ADB supports the provision
of technical education and vocational
training, including nontraditional skills

for women. It also invests in increasing

the regional reach of the University of

the South Pacific, headquartered in Suva,
Fiji, through the expansion of its country
campuses. It approved technical assistance
to build the university's strategic planning
capacity in 2013.

In the northern Pacific (the Federated
States of Micronesia and the Marshall.
Islands), ADB provided technical assistance
in 2013 that will enhance the national
capacity to plan and manage education
services and provide jobs and training
opportunities for young people. mFor along time, our village
members have wanted to
establish a marine protected
area in our coastal fishing grounds
but we had no experience to learn
from...now, we have the basic
knowledge, skills, and inputs

to become better stewards and
ensure a bright future.

—Village official Marcelo Soares discussing an ADB initiative
to protect local fishing grounds in Timor-Leste

Ll 1e

Py i

2
Fa
fi
a
fr
&.
a
Eq
=
2
3
i
z
Zz
2)SOUTH ASIA

Bangladesh, Bhutan, India, the Maldives, Nepal, Sri Lanka

ADB operations in South Asia were
affected by continued economic
difficulties around the world, exacerbated
by volatility in several emerging markets.
This was aggravated by a slowdown in
reforms, persistent fiscal and current
account deficits, and heightened political
uncertainty surrounding general elections.
The region grew at 4.7%, down from

5.1% the previous year. While inflation
declined, price pressures continued due
to currency depreciation and rising energy
and food costs. Infrastructure finance
remains a challenge. The infrastructure
deficit in the region affects productivity
and competitiveness, which in turn affect
investment, trade, jobs, welfare, and

social inclusion.

ADB approved several key transactions in
2013. One of these is a credit facility

to the India Infrastructure Finance
Company Limited, which targets energy,
transport, and other infrastructure
projects led mostly by the private sector.
ADB funding will support both brown field
and green field investments, as well as
takeout financing and subordinated

debt to help local banks increase their
capability to fund new investments.

ADB also financed several transport
projects aimed at improving connectivity
within and between countries. Hard
infrastructure investments were
accompanied by outlays in “soft”
infrastructure, such as customs
modernization and trade facilitation.

OPERATIONAL HIGHLIGHTS

ADB has an existing project pipeline in

the region valued at $13 billion, which
includes $6 billion from its concessional
funds. Grants for technical assistance total
$210 million, which is used to train people,
prepare and execute projects, and deliver
knowledge products. In 2013, new approvals
reached close to $4 billion. Grants for
technical assistance amounted to nearly
$55 million. The value of new contracts
awarded to implement projects was nearly
$3 billion, and disbursements during the
year exceeded $2 billion.

A DECADE OF

RESULTS 2004-2013
(South Asia)

S

 

ENERGY

Households connected to electricity

4 MILLION

WATER

Water supply pipes installed or upgt

21,000 x.

 

Infrastructure represented 87% of the total
business plan. Education reached 1%. ADB
also raised $1.5 billion from third parties for
projects it invested in, sourced mainly from
bilateral agencies.

    

ADB invested nearly $1 billion in the
energy sector through transactions in
hydropower and renewable energy, and

on the modernization and expansion of
transmission and distribution networks.

A key project completed in 2013 is an
interconnection transmission line to supply
electricity from India to Bangladesh. This

is a first in regional cooperation, and a
precursor for other projects of this nature.
A Rajasthan renewable energy transmission
investment program, with ADB funding of
$300 million, was assisted by $200 million
in cofinancing from the Clean Technology
Fund. A new 140-megawatt hydropower
project at Tanahu in Nepal, to which ADB
contributed $150 million, will mitigate that

BHUTAN'S HYDROPOWER FACILITY RECOGNIZED

An ADB green energy project in Bhutan was recognized in the US Treasury's 2013 Development
Impact Honors. The awards recognize exceptional development projects and initiatives undertaken
by multilateral development banks. The 126-megawatt Dagachhu hydropower facility delivers clean
energy to India through a public-private partnership and brings electricity to rural houses in Bhutan. It
demonstrates how clean energy generation can benefit the region and pave the way for cross-border
trade in other renewable power projects. Read more at adb.org/news

 

 

 

 

ADB ANNUAL REPORT 2013

28country’s electricity supply shortage and
provide access to electricity. ADB also
fast-tracked $200 million in emergency
assistance to the state of Uttarakhand in
response to the floods and landslides that
affected almost a million people.

ADB funded a number of innovative
projects in the areas of natural resources,
urban services (water and sanitation),

and education and skills. The education
sector continues to expand as an acute
skills shortage affects jobs and productivity.
ADB approved a first project in this area for
the Indian state of Meghalaya. Likewise, it
approved a $20 million skills development
project for Nepal, and a new $500 million
facility for a program to overhaul secondary
education in Bangladesh. In Sri Lanka,

it approved a $200 million program to
support teaching innovations in secondary
education. This loan was provided through
the results-based lending modality, the first
of its kind in ADB.

ADB approved two new country
partnership strategies (CPSs) in 2013.
The CPS for India (2013-2017) supports
the government's vision of faster, more
inclusive, and sustainable growth and
emphasizes the building of robust
infrastructure, job creation, regional
connectivity, and environmental
sustainability. The new CPS for Nepal
(2013-2017) will achieve accelerated,
inclusive, and sustainable economic growth.

 

The opening of a country office in
Thimphu, Bhutan, reinforces ADB’s strategy
to work more closely with government

by delegating operational authority. It will
strengthen ADB’s 3-decade partnership
with the Government of Bhutan.

Sharing operational knowledge was
another priority during the year. The first
publication in the South-South Learning
Series, Developing South Asia: Lessons
and Insights, summarizes practices and
lessons learned from eight successful

eN

PROMOTING
ENVIRONMENTALLY
SUSTAINABLE
GROWTH
LSE
Bie Olle

ENVIRONMENTAL SUSTAINABILITY is incorporated in infrastructure initiatives in the region
such as the wastewater management system established in Jaipur under the Rajasthan Urban
Infrastructure Development Project in India.

MORE SUSTAINABLE
INFRASTRUCTURE,
CLEANER ENERGY

ADB’s assistance to developing member countries in South Asia helped create
sustainable infrastructure, promoted cleaner energy, and provided safe and clean
drinking water. It emphasized climate resilience, environmental sustainability, and
disaster risk reduction throughout its economic and social infrastructure initiatives.

In Bangladesh, ADB helped to restore roads and bridges damaged by floods to
reduce their vulnerability to natural hazards. The project provided access for the
poor to markets, health and education facilities, and benefited 25 million people.

In Jaipur, India, ADB financed its first metro rail project with a loan of
$176 million. This is expected to reverse the rising shift to private vehicles by
delivering a mass rapid transit system expected to carry over 100,000 passengers
every day in its first year of operation. This development will save an estimated
54.3 tons of carbon dioxide equivalent per day.

In Rajasthan, India, an ADB urban infrastructure development project improved
water supply for 7 million residents, reducing their dependence on groundwater,
and upgraded wastewater management, leading to a significant reduction in
the incidence of water- and vector-borne diseases. In Kolkata, a $400 million
environmental improvement project is also expected to provide poorer communities
with greater access to reliable water and sewerage. It will establish sewerage
connections to 27,000 homes, at least 15% of which will be vulnerable households
or households headed by women.

In Dhaka, Bangladesh, an ADB loan will establish a 500-million liter-per-day
water treatment plant. And in Nepal, an integrated water resources management
plan, including two complementary ADB-supported projects, will ensure improved
water management and a healthier river environment in the Bagmati River Basin,
connecting 1.96 million people to wastewater management networks.

ADB’s support for the supply of renewable energy and for boosting energy
efficiency continues to reduce the environmental impacts associated with power
generation using fossil fuels in Bangladesh, India, the Maldives, and Nepal. An ADB
hydropower project in Tanahu, Nepal, approved in 2013, will provide the country
with reliable hydropower.

 

SOUTH ASIA

29GRID LINKUP
BENEFITS
BANGLADESH

Through $112 million in Asian
Development Fund loans, ADB

has supported Bangladesh in
connecting its electrical grid

with India’s. The interconnection
project facilitated an initial power
flow of 500 megawatts from

India by December 2013, with

a provision to expand to 1,000
megawatts. It will help Bangladesh
lower its reliance on rented
generation facilities and provide a
more reliable supply of electricity
to industry.

 

ACT

ADB projects in the region. In partnership
with the South Asian Association for
Regional Cooperation, ADB published
Development of Capital Markets in Member
Countries of the South Asian Association.
for Regional Cooperation. It also shared

insights on new ways to support the
participation of women in development
projects and programs through 17 incountry and 2 regional workshops.

ACCELERATING REGIONAL
PRIORITY PROJECTS

The ADB-assisted South Asia Subregional
Economic Cooperation (SASEC) Program
has accelerated the implementation

of priority projects in transport, trade
facilitation, and energy. Five regional
projects accounted for over $270 million

in 2013, continuing an upward trend of
investing since 2011.

New investments in 2013 that will boost
regional connectivity include Nepal’s
SASEC Road Connectivity Project and

the second tranche of India’s North Eastern
States Road Investment Program. Nepal’s
Project Preparatory Facility for Energy
seeks to help the country develop
hydropower projects and an electricity
transmission project for future power
export to the subregion.

Various ADB road, rail, and air investments
that make up the SASEC transport
corridors continue to strengthen regional

In 2013, ADB spent almost
$1 billion on renewable
energy projects in South Asia

ADB ANNUAL REPORT 2013

30

cooperation and integration in Bangladesh,
Bhutan, India, and Nepal. The SASEC
Trade Facilitation Program in Bangladesh,
Bhutan, and Nepal is helping Bhutan
establish a national trade facilitation
committee and Nepal to develop an
e-customs master plan.

 

 

The launch in October 2013 of the
ADB-assisted Bangladesh-India Electrical
Grid Interconnection Project—South
Asia’s first high-voltage direct current
interconnection—will improve the stability
of the national grids, as well as provide
greater opportunities for regional power
interconnection and trade. Bhutan’s
Dagachhu hydropower plant—the world’s
first cross-border Clean Development
Mechanism project—under an ADBfinanced green power development
project will allow Bhutan to increase power
exports to India. The project received the
US Treasury Department’s Development
Impact Honors awards in 2013.

 

ACCESS TO OPPORTUNITY FOR ALL
Many of ADB's interventions in the

region in 2013 were designed to reduce
social inequalities, improve access for

the poor and vulnerable to productive
assets and resources, and empower
women. Operations also helped to bridge
infrastructure gaps and improve the overall
quality of infrastructure.

In India, ADB provided six new loans
totaling $1.5 billion. Highway projects

in Bihar provided farmers in remote
villages with access to larger markets and
better prices for their produce. And over
20,000 women-led entrepreneurs stand
to benefit from regular, better quality
power resulting from a feeder separation
technique developed in Madhya Pradesh
under an energy efficiency improvement
investment program.

In Nepal, ADB helped to raise the net
enrollment rate in primary education
(grades 1-5) from 92% in 2008-2009

to 95.3% in 2012-2013, and in basic
education (grades 1-8) from 73% to 87.5%
in the same period by engaging with eight
other development partners. Under a
“skills for employment” project, almost
60,000 marginalized people (women,
Dalits, and others) were provided with
short-term basic vocational skills training
relating to trade, construction, agriculture,
and services. The project met the target
of placing at least 50% of trainees in jobs
within a year of finishing their training.

In Bangladesh, ADB has supported a water
supply sector development program inDhaka, which has provided legal water c ~>}
connections to 30,000 residents living 7 | NOW access iat) elelas

in the poor neighborhood of Korail. The ’ ( A y A
residents now have 24-hour access to i i Ittago ng Siay, more e€asl ly,
reasonably priced water, and ADB aims

to replicate this success in other poor DaSSI ahs} i a e cl ty i eval iS i a rou ola
areas. A multi-donor supported primary i i 11 d

education development program led s newly co n SY ru ie i po rt
by ADB in Bangladesh benefited about d

25 million students (half of them female) Sy roa 3

by providing new or improved facilities

in schools, and built 40,870 classrooms, — Sharifuzzaman Chowdhury, who works at the Chittagong

agq82.tolets,and 17,275 tube wells tg port, referring to an ADB-supported port trade facilitation
provide safe drinking water to children. project in Chittagong

In Sri Lanka, a Japan Fund for Poverty
Reduction project to give poor
communities in the Ampara District of
Eastern Province access to clean and
renewable energy provided electricity
connections to nearly 2,200 households.
In the Maldives, ADB increased access

to finance for micro, small, and mediumsized enterprises by providing the Bank of
Maldives with a line-of-credit facility ona
pilot basis.SOUTHEAST

ASIA

Brunei Darussalam, Cambodia, Indonesia, the Lao People’s Democratic Republic,
Malaysia, Myanmar, the Philippines, Singapore, Thailand, Viet Nam

Most people in Southeast Asia live in
emerging middle-income countries, where
ADB operations in 2013 were largely
focused on addressing growing income
and social service disparities, enhancing
resource management, investing in
innovation, and responding to requests for
emergency support.

Economic and social inequities in
developing member countries (DMCs) are
at the forefront of the region’s development
challenges. Meanwhile, the increased
consumption demands of an expanding
middle class is leading to competition for
finite natural resources and contributing to
environmental degradation.

Many countries faced ongoing fiscal
concerns during the year. Indonesia and
Malaysia cut fuel subsidies to prevent
widening deficits, and the Lao People’s
Democratic Republic (Lao PDR)
experienced revenue shortfalls. The budget
deficit in the Philippines may increase

due to emergency spending following the
catastrophic typhoon in November and
the earthquake in October, but will likely
remain within the full year deficit ceiling of
2% of gross domestic product as a result of
increased tax revenue.

Indonesia’s financial markets weakened

as a result of rising inflation from higher
fuel prices, the current account deficit,
and a drop in foreign reserves in June and
July. In response, the government unveiled
a package of measures in August 2013

to contain the deficit and curb inflation,

 

ADB ANNUAL REPORT 2013

32

both of which have started to decline.
ADB increased the size of a loan to help
further address medium-term effects on
Indonesia’s financial markets.

A DECADE OF

RESULTS 2004-2013
(Southeast Asia)

o

 

In Myanmar, where economic growth

accelerated in 2013, reengagement with FINANCE

the international community opened the “1-0! 0-4 sasdaapicla

way for ADB to approve its first loan to

the country since the 1980s. The funding 1 8 2 O O O

will support wide-ranging economic and )

social reforms. ——————
WATER

Viet Nam has maintained macroeconomic
stability. However, inefficiently operating
state-owned enterprises and the weak
banking sector continued to pose
challenges. In response, ADB provided the
government with policy advice and capacity
development support.

Land improved through irrig.
drainage, and flood management

 

1 services,

 

2 MILLION HECTARES

Ongoing development priorities for ADB
in Southeast Asia include programs to
support the finance sector, environmental
protection, access to education, health
services, job opportunities, sustainable
growth, regional connectivity, power
transmission, and natural resource
management.

 

OPERATIONAL HIGHLIGHTS
Operations in the region have been guided
by ADB’s Strategy 2020, which emphasizes
environmentally sustainable and inclusive
economic growth, and regional cooperation
and integration. In Southeast Asia, ADB
managed 141 projects ($16.6 billion) ina
sovereign portfolio and 257 ($571.23 million)
technical assistance projects.

CARBON CAPTURE OPTIONS EXPLORED

The September 2013 report, Prospects for Carbon Capture and Storage in Southeast Asia, presents a comparative
financial analysis of candidate projects, including details of incentive schemes for financing them, and provides
aroad map for such projects in Southeast Asia. One of its key findings is that carbon capture and storage can help
balance economic growth and continued use of fossil fuels with emissions reduction. Natural gas processing and
power plants are identified as being the best sources for capture in the region. Read it at adb.org/publicationsTotal new lending to the public sector
reached $3.18 billion in 2013, supported

by $1.37 billion in cofinancing and

$153.77 million in technical assistance.

The primary sectors receiving ADB lending
support were public sector management
(50%), transport (15%), and energy (10%).
ADB provided emergency assistance to
the Philippines in the aftermath of Typhoon
Yolanda (Haiyan), which accounted

for 27% of lending support. Contract
awards and disbursement levels reached
$211 billion and $2.7 billion, respectively.

ADB approved a new country partnership
strategy (CPS) with Thailand for
2013-2016, with a focus on knowledge,
private sector development, and regional
cooperation and integration. Compared
with the previous CPS, the approved CPS
emphasizes a shift toward a knowledgebased partnership and increasing private
sector financing.

A $15 million finance sector program in
Cambodia will provide access to credit for
over 15% (from 9% in 2010) of the country’s
people by 2017, with at least 60% of
beneficiaries being women.

In Indonesia, ADB approved a $400 million
inclusive growth program that aims to
stimulate economic activity and crossborder trade through reduced transport
and logistics costs. A $224 million project
will provide 220 kilometers of transmission
lines from Java to Bali, reducing outages
and helping ensure Bali’s projected power
demand will be met. This is the first
infrastructure project cofinanced by the
ASEAN Infrastructure Fund.

 

Approved projects in the Lao PDR
focused on agricultural infrastructure
development, water supply and sanitation
management, private sector development,
and governance. For example, a $35 million
program will provide 155,000 urban
residents by 2021 (from 65,000 in 2013)

eN

ADB GRANTS help improve the climate resilience of agriculture in Southeast Asia.

MANAGING NATURAL
RESOURCES MORE
SUSTAINABLY

PROMOTING
ENVIRONMENTALLY
SUSTAINABLE
GROWTH
IN ASIA AND
rT

Biel Ola (es

ADB successfully integrated the principles of environmental sustainability into
many infrastructure projects in the region in 2013. A Greater Mekong Subregion
(GMS) corridor towns development project spanning Cambodia, the Lao People’s
Democratic Republic, and Viet Nam will provide new environmental infrastructure,
including wastewater treatment and solid waste management facilities that will
reduce the towns’ carbon footprint and make them cleaner and more livable. A
GMS flood and drought management project will reduce the vulnerability of at least

500,000 people in the Lower Mekong Basin from the impact of floods

and droughts

by establishing national early warning centers; improving irrigation, drainage
canals, and flood control embankments; and strengthening communities’ disaster

preparedness and capacity to adapt to climate change.

A $300 million loan in the Philippines will replace 100,000 gasoline-powered
tricycles with energy-efficient electric vehicles (E-Trikes) by 2017, reducing carbon

dioxide emissions by 260,000 tons.

In Cambodia, $86 million in ADB grants will support investments to improve
the climate resilience of water resources, agriculture, and rural infrastructure,
and enhance the capacity of the country’s institutions to factor climate resilience
into their development planning. Cofinancing from the Global Environment
Facility is helping strengthen the environmental management of protected areas
in Central Viet Nam. In Myanmar, environmental impact assessment procedures
and environmental quality standards have been incorporated into the new Foreign

Investment Law, supported by ADB technical assistance.

ADB has also provided significant institutional and knowledge support to
address environmental degradation across the region. A $154 million sector loan for
natural resources and environmental management in the Philippines is supporting
watershed management, focusing on four river basins across 23 watersheds and
covering 1.13 million hectares. A program in Indonesia to rehabilitate, protect,
and manage coral reefs and associated ecosystems has led to the formulation of
national, provincial, and district plans on coral reef management resulting in a 9.4%

average annual growth rate of live coral cover in project sites.

 

SOUTHEAST ASIA

33LAURENT WEYL, AFD

 

CLEANER CITIES,
BETTER LIVES

When the Nguyen Du reservoir in
Tam Ky City in Central Viet Nam
was built in 2010, yearly floods
that brought misery to thousands
of local people came to an end.
The construction of the reservoir,
supported by ADB and Agence
Francaise de Développement, was
part of a larger project to prevent
flooding and improve sanitation.
Today in Tam Ky City, 334 families
have been provided with low-interest
loans to build toilets and biogas
tanks, and 90% of households have
access to clean water.

 

in targeted small towns with access to
safe water, and a $60 million project in the
Greater Mekong Subregion (GMS) EastWest Economic Corridor will benefit
72,000 farmers through improved
agricultural infrastructure.

n Myanmar, ADB approved $575 million in
support for economic and social reforms
and debt relief. It also approved the first
Asian Development Fund lending project
‘or the country after its reengagement,
providing $60 million to improve
distribution and reliable, efficient supply
of electricity in the Magway, Mandalay,
Sagaing, and Yangon regions.

n Viet Nam, about half of ADB
concessional lending focused on improving
rural infrastructure and health services

in the Central Highlands. A $410 million
project approved in 2013 in the Central
Mekong Delta region, cofinanced by

the Government of Australia and the
Government of the Republic of Korea, is
providing two bridges and 26 kilometers
of connecting roads that will carry 20,000
motor vehicles including 4,000 goods
vehicles daily.

 

 

LOAN PROGRAMS EMBRACE
KNOWLEDGE PLANS

Knowledge and learning is an integral part
of ADB operations in Southeast Asia. It
places special emphasis on identifying
the potential lessons learned from its
lending and nonlending operations, and

ADB’s country knowledge
plans are highly valued and
often used to support government

planning

ADB ANNUAL REPORT 2013

34

systematically includes knowledge and
communication plans in its technical
assistance and loan projects. Sector
assessments, strategies, road maps, and
thematic studies continued to inform the
preparation of country partnership and

knowledge solution strategies tailored to
each country during the year.

DMCs in the region recognize the value of
country knowledge plans, which they use
to support government planning. These
plans have been prepared for Indonesia,
Thailand, and Viet Nam. The Thailand CPS
depends heavily on knowledge solutions,
serving as a knowledge priority framework
for middle-income countries.

 

SUBREGIONAL INITIATIVES
CONTINUE TO SUPPORT
INTEGRATION

ADB stepped up activities supporting
regional cooperation and integration,
especially those that support the
Association of Southeast Asian Nations.
(ASEAN) Economic Community, which
aims to become a common market by
2015. ADB has been working closely with
Southeast Asian countries in strengthening
links and related software through
subregional initiatives: the GMS, the Brunei
Darussalam-Indonesia-Malaysia-The
Philippines East ASEAN Growth Area,

and the Indonesia-Malaysia-Thailand

Growth Triangle. All support greater
ASEAN integration.

ADB assisted GMS countries in formulating
a regional investment framework endorsed
by the 19th GMS Ministerial Conference in
December 2013. The framework identifies
investment and technical assistance
projects for the third decade of the
subregion program.

A project approved in 2013 to strengthen
the Indonesian power grid will build a
cross-border transmission line linking
West Kalimantan with Sarawak in Malaysia,
providing clean, green hydroelectricity for
the Indonesian province. About 8,000
households will be added to the grid.

A GMS project approved in 2013 will
regenerate, replace, and upgrade
underdeveloped or outdated irrigation
infrastructure and rural roads to help
boost growth in the GMS East-West
Economic Corridor.

NEW PROJECTS TO BOOST
INCOMES FOR RURAL PEOPLE
ADB’s operations in 2013 continued to
promote inclusive growth by helpingexpand economic opportunities and
improve livelihoods. In Cambodia, a
$55 million project to commercialize
“climate-resilient” rice is expected to
Tlelelc-eCM dal -E-N ZVI EVOL mel mele Mccoy
improve rural water management on farms,
and boost crop yields by 25% by 2019.
Additional financing for a rural energy
project will increase access to efficient,
reliable energy supply for 8,000 rural
households by December 2014.

d has made my life

r. Now, I’m making more
, and | hope | can expand
eye ace

heng, pictured, roadside vendor, on the new ADBey Veng detour road in Cambodia

In the Lao PDR, ADB’s support continued
for education, the development of
teachers’ skills, tourism, and the private © a
sector, helping to further inclusive

growth of the predominantly rural
based communities. Formal education
outreach and skills enhancement programs
will improve the rural population’s
employment opportunities and livelihood
from sustainable tourism development.
Meanwhile, expanding the number of small
and medium-sized enterprises in the formal
sector by 100% will provide further job
opportunities.

In Myanmar, a program aimed at boosting
the incomes of rural people, supported by

a $12 million grant from the Japan Fund for
Poverty Reduction, will fund small-scale
infrastructure improvements and livelihood
projects to teach local communities useful
ier CUriLat MiCOUMM IAL Aesah =o N 11 AKON
cash crops to aquaculture. At least 700,000
villagers are expected to benefit. m ra

a
3
&
a
x=
=
9
&

SOUTHEAST ASIAol

rovides steady and long-term”
‘ing support for the development of our
ironmental protection business... through.a
sparent bilateral cooperation and mutual
, [we] are dedicated to the creation of a
ble living environment.

  
 
   

—Chen Xiaoping, chief executive officer of China Everbright International, which invests in
EV Tee eR UREN CRE yale chord

ADB ANNUAL REPORT 2013

36

AFP.DEVELOPING
THE PRIVATE SECTOR

ADB's Strategy 2020 emphasizes the
importance of private sector development
and private sector operations, recognizing
that the private sector plays a critical role
in creating employment opportunities that
support inclusive and environmentally
sustainable growth. ADB’s Public-Private
Partnership (PPP) Operational Plan
2012-2020 guides its approach to private
sector development, articulating how ADB
must leverage resources and promote
private sector investment and commercial
financing to meet the huge development
needs of Asia and the Pacific.

ADB’s capabilities in private and public
sector operations allow it to deliver
comprehensive solutions for developing
member countries (DMCs), tailored

to respective country strategies. ADB’s
regional departments are taking leadership
roles in advocating for private sector
participation and strengthening assistance
to DMCs to develop the overall enabling
environment for private investment.

ADB directly provides advisory services,
financing, and support for better
preparation and development of projects
that will attract private participation and
investment. The Private Sector Operations
Department directly supports commercial
finance providers, companies, and projects
through ADB’s own financing and through
the much larger pool of financing that it
harnesses from the market.

ADB’s private sector development and
financing supports the core infrastructure

sectors of energy (particularly renewable
energy), transport, water, and information
and communication technology. In
addition, ADB is active in the financial
services sector, seeking to expand access to
finance for micro, small, and medium-sized
enterprises (MSMEs). Other important
private sector industries supported by ADB
include agribusiness, education, and health.

 

50% of ADB’s annual operations
must Support private
sector development and
operations by 2020

Across its private sector-related assistance,
whether with government or in its own
investment and lending operations, ADB
promotes corporate social responsibility

in relation to the environment, and social
protection through technical support

for its clients. Its specialists ensure that
environmental and social safeguards
requirements are met and that clients
adopt principles of good governance.

 

 

 

 

 

ww PRIVATE SECTOR OPERATIONS ASSESSED

In Asia and the Pacific, much of the recent success in reducing poverty has been due to robust economic growth
stimulated by the private sector. Released in July 2013, the Development Effectiveness Report 2012: Private Sector
Operations presents the fourth annual assessment of the contribution of private sector operations to ADB’s
development agenda, and identifies action required to improve results. Read it at adb.org/publications

DEVELOPING THE PRIVATE SECTOR

37Indirectly, the implementation of
ADB’s safeguards policies helps to
improve the environmental practices of
client companies.

SUPPORTING BUSINESS AND
BOOSTING SKILLS

ADB’s support for the private sector
continued to grow in 2013, with 41% of total
approvals by number of projects, or 35%

of Asian Development Fund and ordinary
capital resources approvals by volume,

contributing to private sector development.

Capacity Development

Implementation and capacity constraints
are challenges for governments in
developing their private sectors. ADB seeks
to enhance the capacity and skills of
officials in the public sector as well as those
of its own Management and staff.

41% of ADB projects
supported private sector
development in 2013

ADB ANNUAL REPORT 2013

38

n addition, ADB continues to provide
training programs and share private sector
client solutions to development challenges.
it developed a training program, PPPs

or Development Results, which aimed

to ensure that public sector officials

are well versed in the fundamentals of

PPPs as well as their planning, budgeting,
implementation, monitoring, and the
evaluation implications. In coordination
with the World Bank Institute and the
Republic of Korea, ADB hosted the Heads
of Public-Private Partnership Units Forum
in Seoul to discuss creative solutions and to
promote private sector participation.

 

n October 2013, ADB signed a
memorandum of understanding with

25 international financial institutions to
monitor a common set of development
results indicators for private sector
operations. The institutions involved
agreed to monitor 32 indicators across
several sectors to compare development
results more effectively, facilitating the

sharing of lessons learned across their
operations.

Improving the Business Environment
ADB promotes efforts to improve

the business environment for private
companies in developing member
economies through support for policy and
regulatory reforms, including better and
more transparent business regulations, and
simpler tax and trade policies.

For example, with ADB’s assistance,
Mongolia drafted a new investment

law. Enacted in October, it provides tax
and non-tax investment incentives and
introduces “stabilization certificates”
through which investors can stabilize rates
for specific taxes for up to 18 years. ADB
also helped the Government of Mongolia
to draft a law in January 2013 that led to
the creation of the Deposit Insurance
Corporation of Mongolia. The Parliament
adopted the Law on Insurance for Bank
Deposits, which establishes a mandatory
insurance scheme for the protection of
bank deposits.

n Myanmar, ADB is providing advice to
the government on the establishment of

a national PPP management framework.

t is engaged with the Ministry of Electric
Power to establish principles of competitive
bidding and commercial contracting for
power generation.

n Thailand, with ADB assistance, the
Private Investments in State Undertaking
Act was enacted in April 2013. The act

aims to streamline the project approval
process. In Viet Nam, France’s international
development agency, Agence Frangaise de
Développement, supplied $10 million in
cofinancing in August 2013 toward a project
development facility.

The Private Sector Development

nitiative in the Pacific has been ADB’s
main instrument for promoting such
development in this region. The success

of the initiative’s first two phases resulted
in ADB, Australia, and New Zealand
agreeing to fund $30.5 million for a third
phase, approved in June 2013. This initiative
provides support in five areas: access to
finance and financial services, business

law reform, competition policy, stateowned enterprise reform and PPPs, and the
economic empowerment of women.Preparing and Developing Projects for
Private Participation

ADB’s provision of transaction advisory
services to help DMCs develop private
sector investment opportunities is at an
early stage, and is an important potential
benefit for select public infrastructure
projects.

In November 2013, ADB was appointed
by state-owned entities to identify

a commercial consortium leader to
build, own, and operate the planned
1,800-kilometer TurkmenistanAfghanistan—-Pakistan-India natural gas
pipeline in the four countries concerned.
ADB’s support will include establishing
the pipeline company, undertaking due
diligence on the feasibility of the project,
and managing the bidding for and selection
of the consortium leader.

In Bangladesh, ADB signed a memorandum
of understanding with the government

for the provision of transaction advisory
services for forthcoming projects.

A successful large-scale project in northeastern People’s Republic of China (PRC)
is building urban water supply and wastewater treatment plants through a publicprivate partnership. The ADB-supported project is an important catalyst for
economic growth and environmental improvement in the PRC, particularly in the
underdeveloped Songhua Basin, the third-largest river catchment in the country.
It exemplifies the effective use of private capital to develop such programs.

The first phase of the loan facility was approved in 2010 to assist the
Longjiang Environmental Protection Group, a pioneering private sector operator
in Heilongjiang Province, to build, acquire, upgrade or expand, and then operate
wastewater treatment plants and water supply utilities in the basin. That
assistance totaled more than $126 million. As of 2012, the intervention had
funded more than 1.3 million tons per day (tpd) of new wastewater treatment
capacity.

In 2013, the second phase was approved, with support comprising a loan
of $98.8 million to the Longjiang Group. While phase one focused on capacity
expansion, phase two will finance sludge treatment and disposal subprojects
with an estimated combined capacity of 1,300 tpd, and upgrades to existing
wastewater plant facilities with an estimated combined capacity of 200,000 tpd
to meet higher environmental standards. The project will help reduce pollution
and address acute water stress in the Songhua Basin.

nia a HitCIVIL AVIATION
ENHANCEMENT IN
ARMENIA

A loan of $40 million to Armenia
International Airports for the
second phase of an expansion
project at Zvartnots Airport
represents ADB’s first involvement
in civil aviation in the country.

Since the country is landlocked,
Armenia significantly depends on air
transport for its connectivity. The
project has resulted in the airport
registering 12% more passengers and
aircraft movements and 9% more
cargo tons per month on average

ADB ANNUAL REPORT 2013

40

ADB approved technical assistance
projects in Cambodia to develop

enabling conditions for private
participation in infrastructure, with a view
to providing a $30 million loan to develop

a pipeline of projects in 2015. In Indonesia,
it approved a sustainable infrastructure
assistance program, with $20 million
provided by the Government of Australia in
May 2013.

Australia and Canada cofinanced a
technical assistance project to strengthen
PPPs in the Philippines, bringing the total
funding amount to $50.5 million. This
program aims to improve the enabling
environment for private investment, and
management of a sustainable project
development and monitoring facility.

The facility supports the preparation and
transaction of 27 such projects.

In the Pacific islands, ADB provided
ongoing support to four private sector
projects in various stages of development.
The Port Moresby and Lae airport
expansions in Papua New Guinea (PNG)
and the Dili water supply system in TimorLeste are at pre-feasibility stage. In PNG,
the government has engaged ADB to
develop infrastructure finance options for
the operation and further expansion of the
new Lae Port.

DELIVERING FINANCIAL ASSISTANCE
TO TARGETED SECTORS
Nonsovereign operations, representing
state-controlled enterprises operating

in the private market and privately
controlled commercial entities, are a core
part of ADB’s Strategy 2020 and

its Finance++ approach. Under Finance++,
in addition to providing direct financing,
ADB supports private sector clients

with financial leveraging, brings about
higher standards in operations, and
introduces new technologies and other
innovations (finance plus leverage

plus knowledge).

ADB's strategic objective for nonsovereign
operations is to increase the flow of capital
into and within targeted industry sectors
in DMCs through leadership, best practice,
and innovative financing. In 2013, ADB
approved 22 new projects in 12 countries,
with direct investment support amounting
to $1.60 billion and cofinancing support of
an additional $2.93 billion.

New Sectors and Initiatives

ADB sought fresh ways to make a
difference in 2013, with private sector
operations entering new markets and
introducing new ways of delivering financial
assistance to targeted sectors. The year saw
approval of ADB’s first assistance dedicated
to privately owned power distribution
companies, with loans of $40 million and
$80 million to electricity distribution firms
in Akmola, Kazakhstan, and Delhi, India,
respectively. These companies aim to lower
power distribution losses and improve
access to power.

 

An equity investment of $60 million in the
OrbiMed Health Care Fund was ADB’s
first support for a fund in the health sector.
This fund invests in end-to-end health
care solutions, from diagnostics and drug
development to hospital care.

ADB provided support for clean
transportation in the People’s Republic

of China by approving loans of up to

$275 million to up to five financial leasing
companies. The funding will facilitate leases
for “clean” buses, which run on alternative
fuel or are energy efficient.

In addition, ADB significantly expanded
its support for private sector activities
in agribusiness, approving three

new interventions in this rapidly
emerging industry.

Capital Markets and Financial Services
Improving access to finance for MSMEs
continues to be a main thrust of ADB
operations in the finance sector. In 2013,
its support in this sector included a $50
million loan to TBC Bank in Georgia, a
$15 million loan to Nations Trust Bank in
Sri Lanka, and, in Mongolia, a $30 million
loan to XacBank and a $10 million loan to
the TenGer Financial Group for onlending
to XacLeasing in support of the nascent
leasing sector in that country.

 

ADB supported rural financial inclusion
for MSMEs with a $50 million loan to
AccessBank in Azerbaijan to increase

its operations and branches outside the
capital, Baku, and a $75 million loan to
ACLEDA bank in Cambodia for MSMEs,
which is expected to be utilized primarily in
rural areas.

In addition, ADB approved an innovative
$35 million partial credit guarantee facilityto expand access to finance for rural dairy
farmers in Pakistan. Under its Microfinance
Risk Participation and Guarantee
Program, it approved 13 new microfinance
institutions (MFIs) (2 in Bangladesh, 1 in
Indonesia, 1 in the Philippines, and 9 in
India) and issued 5 guarantees in India
totaling $6 million. ADB provided $15
million in risk participations with a partner
financial institution in the amount of $15
million for three MF ls in India. In 2013,
through these programs in India, ADB was
able to provide 300,000 new loans, almost
exclusively to women living on less than

$3 a day.

ADB’s Trade Finance Program (TFP) fills
market gaps by providing guarantees

and loans through banks to boost trade,
supporting $4 billion in trade in 2013. Of this
amount, $2.3 billion was cofinanced with
commercial banks, insurance, and other
partners, while $1.8 billion was for ADB’s
own account.

 

The TFP supported 2,120 transactions in
2013, of which 352 were between DMCs. It
supported 1,806 small and medium-sized
enterprises, up from 1,577 in 2012. The TFP,
which began the process of expanding to
Myanmar, operated in 18 countries, with
its most active markets being Bangladesh,
Pakistan, Sri Lanka, Uzbekistan, and

Viet Nam. Over 97% of the TFP’s 2013
transactions were in countries eligible for
ADB’s concessional funds.

 

 

 

Infrastructure

Through strong partnerships with private
companies, ADB continued to support
infrastructure development in the energy,
water and wastewater, and agribusiness
sectors, and maintained its strong support
for renewable energy. In Thailand, it
approved an $87 million loan for Solarco
Company Limited to build a 57-megawatt
(MW) solar power plant in Nakhon Pathom
and Suphanburi provinces. In India, it used
a corporate finance approach to provide

 

 

equity investments of $30 million to NSL
Renewable Power Private Limited and

$50 million to Welspun Renewable Energy
Limited. NSL aims to install 75 MW and
100 MW of wind power and hydropower,
respectively, by 2016, while Welspun
intends to install 300 MW of solar and wind
power capacity by 2015.

A $2 million equity investment will provide
growth capital to Simpa Networks, a

7A T

of the existing Dahej Liquefied Natural
Gas terminal in India. And it provided
a $25 million loan to International
Energy Corporation in Armenia, to
help rehabilitate the Sevan—Hrazdan
hydropower system.

 

Continuing its support for the water sector
in Indonesia, ADB approved a $45 million
loan to Aetra Air Jakarta to supply water
to East Jakarta. This project complements

 

22 projects in 12 countries

were approved, with supp

ort

amounting to $1.6 billion

company offering an innovative mobile
phone-based, pay-as-you-go metering
system for rooftop solar systems in India.
The project will increase access to clean
electricity in areas not reached by the
power grid and will benefit inclusive
growth. This technology is offered to
solar micro-grid developers as a flexible
prepaid metering, customer, and revenue
management solution.

In Indonesia, ADB approved a loan of $250
million to construct, operate, and maintain
three geothermal power generation units
in the Sarulla concession area with a total
capacity of about 320 MW. The units will
be powered by steam, providing a reliable
renewable energy source.

To provide an alternative to energy from
coal and oil, ADB again strongly promoted
the use of natural gas, a cleaner fuel,

by its approval of a $150 million loan to
Petronet LNG Limited for the expansion

LEARNING FROM LATIN AMERICA
ADB and the Inter-American Development Bank have jointly produced a report, Working Together in Pursuit of
Inclusive Business: Sharing the Latin American and Caribbean Experience with Asia and the Pacific: A Retrospective.
Released by the presidents of the banks in Tokyo in November 2013, it summarizes opportunities and suggests ways
in which ADB can learn from Latin America in pursuing inclusive business. Read it at adb.org/publications

support for a water supply project in West
Jakarta, completed in 2012.

ADB provided a $200 million loan to China
Water Affairs Group Limited and Shanghai
Silver Dragon Investment Limited to build,
repair, or rehabilitate water distribution
facilities in urban and rural areas. Anda
$240 million loan to Beijing Enterprises
Water Group Limited finances technology
to reuse wastewater.

ADB’s private sector operations first
supported agribusiness in 2012 and added
two more projects in this sector in 2013. In
Kazakhstan, ADB provided a $40 million
loan to LLP RG Brands Kazakhstan to
improve the storage facilities and transport
of ultrahigh temperature milk and juice
production facilities in the Kostanay and
Aksengir regions. In India, an $18 million
loan to Champion Agro Limited will assist
in developing cold storage facilities to
prolong the life of horticultural products.

DEVELOPING THE PRIVATE SECTOR

41To retain our relevance, A evolve
to address the concernsand challenges
of countries as they increasingly reach
middle-income status.

— President Takehiko Nakao, speaking at the 2013 Global Meeting of the
Emerging Markets Forum in Virginia, US

ADB ANNUAL REPORT 2013DELIVERING AN
EFFECTIVE
ORGANIZATION

POLICY AND STRATEGY

In 2013, ADB continued to review and
revise its policies, procedures, and structure
to improve service delivery to developing
member country (DMC) clients and
ensure that it used resources efficiently
and delivered results.

Midterm Review of Strategy 2020

In 2013, ADB initiated a midterm review

of its long-term strategic framework,
Strategy 2020. The review analyzes lessons
learned, key achievements and areas for
improvement, and emerging development
challenges. It considers future strategic
directions to deepen and rebalance ADB’s
relationship with DMCs.

The midterm review is guided by a

steering committee made up of heads

of departments. Drafts were posted on
ADB’s website for comment and discussed
with the Board, Management, and key
stakeholders, including representatives
from 31 member countries, and suggestions
were also received online through a
dedicated website. The review is expected
to be completed in 2014.

Uniform Approach to Sector and
Thematic Operational Plans
Operational plans help ensure that ADB
operations are aligned with Strategy 2020.
In 2013, ADB introduced new business
processes to ensure it adopts a resultsbased approach when developing these
plans. It also approved new operational
plans for the environment, fragile and
conflict-affected situations, gender equity
and women’s empowerment, urban
development, and social protection.

Revised ADB Results Framework
ADB's corporate results framework was
revised in 2013. It rates progress toward

Strategy 2020 goals using indicators with
targets. Corporate performance is reported
in the annual Development Effectiveness
Review (DEfR). New indicators measure
progress in priority areas, including inclusive
economic growth, gender equality, climate
change, public-private partnerships (PPPs),
project implementation, outcomes and
sustainability.

Managing governance and fighting
corruption

The strategic framework for action

which guides ADB’s governance and
anticorruption work is provided by its
governance and anticorruption policies and
Second Governance and Anticorruption.
Action Plan (GACAP II). In 2013, ADB
conducted a review of GACAP II’s
implementation. ADB made notable
progress in implementing governance

risk assessments and risk management
plans in its operations in 34 DMCs since
2006. The review reinforced the message
that ADB should continue to strengthen
the mainstreaming of governance in

its operations. This includes building
governance interventions into country
partnership strategies (CPSs), sector road
maps, and operational plans.

ADB also reviewed procurement
governance to improve its responsiveness
and efficiency. Training was introduced to
ensure staff take a risk-based approach

to procurement. Measures were taken to
improve cost estimations and procurement
plans. It also streamlined procurement
review processes for lower-risk projects. In
addition, it initiated a regular assessment
of procurement practices and began work
ona system for managing complaints. The
procurement accreditation skills scheme
for staff and training for DMC clients

were expanded.

DELIVERING AN EFFECTIVE ORGANIZATIONFAST FACT

ENSURING ADB DELIVERS RESULTS

Piloting Results-Based Lending for
Programs

Results-based lending (RBL) for
government-owned sector programs was
piloted in 2013. It links disbursements

to the achievement of program results.
Assessments of government-owned
sector programs will help to guide the
design of RBL programs. During the year,
ADB approved the first RBL program—to
support the education sector in Sri Lanka.

Managing for Development Results

To meet the 80% success target for projects
under the DEfR, ADB strengthened
measures to monitor the readiness of
infrastructure projects during the year.

It also reviewed modalities to support the
preparation of projects.

93% of stakeholders see ADB
as having a positive impact
on the lives of the poor

ADB ANNUAL REPORT 2013

44

ADB provided three training sessions

on Managing for Development Results
(MfDR) to 67 staff, and two in-country
sessions for 8 government officials and

5 ADB staff in Armenia, and 17 ADB staff
in Cambodia. It helped prepare results
frameworks for nine CPSs including the
four CPSs approved in 2013.

As part of its ongoing focus on delivering
results in DMCs, the ADB-supported
Asia-Pacific Community of Practice

on Managing for Development Results
introduced new approaches on how to
manage decentralization—through an
interregional forum in Mexico, and for
PPPs through two regional events. ADB
also supported MfDR training and forums
in Cambodia, the Kyrgyz Republic, and the
Philippines.

 

Progress on Global Partnership for
Effective Development Cooperation
(Aid Effectiveness Agenda)

ADB remains committed to effective
development cooperation. It has
institutionalized and mainstreamed the

core principles of the Fourth High Level
Forum on Aid Effectiveness (the Busan
principles) into its policies and strategies
and reinforced good practices in its
operations. The Busan principles promote
ownership of development priorities by
developing countries, focusing on results,
broader development partnerships, and
transparency and accountability. Working
closely with the Global Partnership for
Effective Development Cooperation, ADB
and a number of its DMCs participated

in a 2013 global monitoring exercise to
measure progress in implementing the
Busan commitments through a set of
global indicators. ADB is also working
with other multilateral development
banks in supporting preparation of the
first Ministerial Meeting of the Global
Partnership in Mexico in April 2014.

Accountability and Compliance

The Compliance Review Panel (CRP)
investigates alleged noncompliance by
ADB with its operational policies and
procedures. The CRP submitted its report
to the Board on the Indonesia Integrated
Citarum Water Resources Management
Investment Program—Project 1 and
completed its draft report on the Cambodia
Rehabilitation of the Railway Project. The
Board approved the recommendations
made by the CRP in the Citarum case to
ensure future tranches under this loan
would comply with ADB’s safeguards.

The CRP submitted a report to the Board
on the eligibility of the complaint on the
India Mundra Ultra Mega Power Project. It
also submitted the first monitoring report
on the Philippines’ Visayas Base-Load
Power Project.

The year marked the completion of the
ADB Accountability Mechanism’s 10th year
of operation, and a year since launch of

the new Accountability Mechanism Policy.
Activities in 2013 were focused mainly on
reaching out to stakeholders—through the
channeling and forwarding of complaints,
more inclusive investigation of cases,

and implementing of remedial action in
consultation with stakeholders.

The Office of the Special Project Facilitator
(OSPF) is responsible for the problem
solving function of ADB’s Accountability
Mechanism. People who believe they

have been adversely affected by an ADBassisted project can use the function. In2013, OSPF completed an investigation
into small infrastructure works related
to the railway project in Cambodia. Five
complaints received were determined
ineligible for investigation, though a
solution was mediated in each case.

Transparency and Disclosure

ADB continued to implement its Public
Communications Policy by boosting efforts
to ensure staff compliance with the policy.
It established a disclosure group to provide
advice on disclosure issues related to
information technology (IT) infrastructure
and business processes. In addition, it
implemented a new disclosure monitoring
system to ensure consistent compliance
with policy disclosure requirements. The
Public Disclosure Advisory Committee
handled the first public interest appeal
under the policy. In September 2013, ADB
hosted the annual meeting of the working
group on disclosure and stakeholder
engagement among international

financial institutions.

2012 ADB Perceptions Survey Findings
The third ADB Perceptions Survey of
external stakeholders was published in
August 2013. Results show that most
stakeholders (93%) in member countries
continue to see ADB as having a positive
impact on the lives of the poor. An
overwhelming majority of respondents
think ADB is a trusted, competent, reliable,
and transparent development partner. It
is considered to be an excellent source of
knowledge on development issues.

Respondents cited some weaknesses,
including perceptions that ADB is
bureaucratic and slow to make decisions.
it received lower performance ratings
relative to other Strategy 2020 priority
areas for its work in education, promoting
gender equality, and mobilizing

resources to develop the private sector.
Respondents suggested ADB could be
more innovative.

Promoting Effective Implementation

n 2013, ADB strengthened its fiduciary
oversight and support function by merging
portfolio management, procurement,

and financial management into a single
department. This allowed it to enhance its
portfolio management support, increase
staff delegation, and improve due diligence
and capacity development.

 

NEW MEASURES INTRODUCED IN 2013 will result in faster, more efficient awarding of contracts
and disbursements, reducing delays in project implementation.

MANAGING PROJECTS

ADB strengthened its project management offices by improving coordination
among project managers and implementing agencies, and boosting the mix of skills
among its staff. Field offices recruited experts in implementing complex, multisector
projects and resolving procurement issues, and introduced measures to retain talent.

ADB activated a procurement network comprising project administration staff
and procurement specialists at headquarters and field offices to promote more
effective knowledge sharing and support in addressing procurement issues.

In addition, ADB introduced proactive measures to solve problems and address
medium-term challenges in project implementation. It actively participated in
special country portfolio reviews and meetings with governments and stakeholders
to resolve implementation issues and develop solutions. It closed, canceled, or
restructured nonperforming projects on a continuing basis, and applied project
readiness filters to new pipeline projects. It also encouraged the use of a project
design facility to help developing member countries prepare detailed designs before
project approval.

Collectively, these measures will result in faster, more efficient awarding of
contracts and disbursements, reducing delays in the implementation of projects.

 

To speed up contract awards and
disbursements, ADB implemented the
recommendations of the Procurement
Governance Review report. This work

departments, introduced an automated
system for creating procurement plans and
monitoring and evaluation of procurement
packages, and revised its project

includes developing a risk-based approach
to procurement, including the development
of new thresholds for international
competitive bidding, and a streamlined
Procurement Committee process. To
improve efficiency further, ADB placed
more procurement specialists in regional

administration instructions to streamline
disbursement and withdrawal procedures.

Procurement Accreditation Skills Scheme
(PASS) workshops were held, with 32 staff
accredited for consultant recruitment

and 35 for procurement, enabling ADB to

DELIVERING AN EFFECTIVE ORGANIZATION

45a —

INDEPENDENT EVALUATION reviewed ADB’s performance, examining ways in which operations
could be made more efficient.

INDEPENDENT EVALUATION
FOR DEVELOPMENT
EFFECTIVENESS

Independent Evaluation assesses ADB policies, strategies and operations to ensure
that they meet development effectiveness criteria, and has been implementing
changes to make its work more relevant and responsive. In 2013, it updated its
Operations Manual and focused its efforts on higher-level evaluations (corporate,
thematic, country, and sector), researched emerging issues, and improved
knowledge sharing and evaluation capacity among ADB staff and officials from
developing member countries (DMCs).

The Board discussed the 2013 Annual Evaluation Review in June 2013.

The review reflected on the performance of ADB operations, and the need to pay
greater attention to sustainability issues in infrastructure operations.

The 2013 thematic evaluation study on ADB’s support for the Millennium
Development Goals (MDG) found that in 2002-2011, ADB provided $32 billion in
sovereign financing (37% of the total) for direct MDG support. Programs aimed at
reducing income poverty and promoting environmental sustainability comprised
the major share, while support for human development was less prominent. The
evaluation recommended that ADB consider rebalancing its support to health and
education, and provide more direct MDG support for the most lagging DMCs.

Another study assessed the contribution of private sector operations (PSOs) to
inclusive and environmentally sustainable growth, recommending that ADB further
increase the inclusiveness of PSOs by working directly with private sector promoters
on inclusive business models, removing impediments to private investments in social
infrastructure, and increasing PSOs in poorer countries and disadvantaged regions.

Independent Evaluation also reviewed ADB’s operational performance and
decentralization progress, and examined ways in which operations could be made
more efficient. It recommended that ADB give field offices more operational work,
taking advantage of their proximity to clients and local knowledge.

 

ADB ANNUAL REPORT 2013

46

evaluate procurement documents more
quickly. In addition, 160 and 164 staff passed
the final exams for consultant recruitment
and procurement, respectively.

To address procurement delays from the
DMC client side, the first Capacity Building
Program for Executing and Implementing
Agencies on Successful Project Design and
Implementation Forum provided training
to 62 representatives of ADB-financed
projects on ADB’s project cycle. The
training explored key issues that typically
arise during project design, implementation,
monitoring, and completion.

STRENGTHENING STAFF CAPACITY

Learning and Development

ADB’s staff development framework,
policies, and programs are anchored in
Strategy 2020 and the Our People Strategy.
To improve staff capacity in delivering
services to DMC clients, ADB delivered
177 training programs attended by

2,922 staff. The programs focused on

the project cycle—project design and
management; financial management and
analysis of projects; project cost estimates;
procurement, using guarantees to finance
projects; mission leadership; and publicprivate partnership. It also offered 10
courses to support development of new
and potential managers, mission leaders
and/or members, with 278 attendees. Staff
benefited from more eLearn courses and
delivery of training at field offices.

Communities of Practice (CoPs) continued
to drive ADB’s sector and thematic
training programs. In 2013, CoPs delivered
56 programs (with 131 participants), an
increase of about 60% over the previous
year. The increase confirms the higher
demand for sector and thematic training
programs, the capacity of CoPs to
implement these programs given adequate
financial and operational support, and the
benefits of CoPs working in collaboration
with centers of excellence and other
knowledge partners.

Safeguards

ADB continued to support projects that
helped improve DMCs’ legal frameworks
for involuntary resettlement and
environmental assessment, strengthen
institutional capacity to implement national
laws and regulations on safeguards, andpromote knowledge management and
South-South cooperation on country
safeguard systems. Some 106 projects
were screened and reviewed for potential
impacts related to the environment,
involuntary resettlement, and indigenous
peoples. Of these projects, 77 (73%) were
deemed to have potential environmental
impacts, 58 (55%) to have potential
involuntary resettlement impacts, and

20 (19%) to have potential impacts on
indigenous peoples.

ADB is one of 10 Global Environment
Facility (GEF) agencies and the only

one assessed as meeting all of the GEF’s
minimum requirements on environmental
and social safeguards. ADB implemented
three safeguard orientation courses and
an advanced environmental management
course for the Joint Safeguards
Practitioners CoP. They were attended

by 96 participants from the executing
agencies, and development partners.

MAKING THE MOST OF ADB
RESOURCES

Human Resources Management
During 2010-2012, ADB implemented a
3-year workforce plan, allocating 500 new
positions (a 20% increase compared to
2009). The implementation of the plan
has strengthened in-house skills in core
operational areas defined in Strategy
2020 by about 48% compared with 2009
in terms of staff positions. The positions
were primarily in operations departments
and field offices, aimed at increasing

staff capacity in project administration
and portfolio management. The human
resources function was reorganized to
improve accountability and governance
mechanisms for human resources
management, providing managers better
access to higher value and strategic human
resources-related advice and a more
efficient delivery of routine services.

To ensure a strong mix of high-performing
staff whose skills are aligned with the needs
of stakeholders, ADB implemented various
talent management initiatives in 2013.
These included measures to strengthen
existing performance management
processes, and the introduction of
renewable fixed-term contracts for senior
positions. Building on the success of gender
action programs, ADB implemented the

POWER USAGE,
WASTE REDUCED

  

eN

 

PROMOTING
ENVIRONMENTALLY
SUSTAINABLE
GROWTH
LSE
Bie Olle

ADB promotes a safe workplace and actively reduces its carbon footprint.

By December 2013, it had reduced electricity consumption by 3.3% from the
previous year, against a target of 1%, reduced paper consumption by 7.9% against
a target of 2%, and solid waste by 15.2% against a target of 2%. In 2013, the
resource conservation program was made available to all field offices.

ADB follows green procurement initiatives when sourcing, recycling, and
disposing of goods. It sources 100% of its energy needs from renewable sources
(geothermal and solar) and 55% of base ingredients in food offerings from the
local market for the headquarters building. Eserve, a requisition and management
system, is being progressively rolled out from 2013 and will reduce paper
consumption for forms and orders.The expansion of ADB headquarters in Manila
continued, with energy and water-efficient technologies, construction materials
with recycled content, low-embodied carbon facade, and building-integrated

solar power to be activated in 2014.

 

diversity and inclusion framework under
which gender diversity and inclusiveness
will continue to be prioritized.

Administrative Expenses

Resources required at ADB have been
largely stabilized through the combination
of the transformation exercise and the
continuing efforts to implement efficiency
and cost-reduction measures. Actual net
internal administrative expenses (IAE)

for 2013 totaled $561.33 million. This
includes the administrative expenses

for Independent Evaluation as well as
$35.31 million in budget savings transferred
to the Staff Retirement Plan. The total
represents a utilization rate of 97.4% against
the original budget of $576.60 million.
Savings against the original budget were
realized mainly from underspending

in salaries, business travel and staff
consultants, and depreciation.

The net IAE budget for 2014 is

$598.39 million. The increase of

$22.58 million or 3.9% over the 2013 budget
is fully attributed to price increases. The
2014 budget also includes an annual capital
budget of $8.5 million to fund cyclical
capital expenditures.

Enhancing Field Presence
ADB continued to enhance its field
presence in 2013, establishing new resident

missions (field offices) in Bhutan and
Myanmar. The Special Office in TimorLeste was renamed a resident mission. It
allocated 12 new positions to absorb core
functions performed by contractors. The
number of resident missions increased to
29 from 28 in 2012 and authorized staff
positions grew to 694 (22.7% of ADB staff)
from 680 (22.3% of ADB staff) in 2012.

Strengthening Risk Management
ADB’s risk management framework is
designed to support a risk-aware culture
and implement business processes that
allow departments and offices to monitor,
mitigate, and manage a variety of risks.

While increasing its financing for

private sector development, ADB has
strengthened its ability to manage credit
risks associated with private sector lending.
In 2013, it devoted substantial resources

to improving the credit process for private
sector transactions through a new credit
risk management technology platform.

It also continued to provide support to
DMC financial institutions to strengthen
their risk management capacity. For
example, a technical assistance workshop
in Kazakhstan was conducted to strengthen
the risk management capacity of financial
institutions lending to small and mediumsized enterprises. ADB’s AAA credit rating

DELIVERING AN EFFECTIVE ORGANIZATION

47was reaffirmed by the three major credit
rating agencies.

Audit

ADB's Office of the Auditor General
(OAG) issued 24 audit reports in 2013,
covering sovereign, nonsovereign, risk
management and treasury operations,
finance and administration, and
information systems and technology
activities. It monitored the implementation
status of audit recommendations and
validated the actions of business units to
mitigate risks.

ADB’s AAA credit rating
was reaffirmed by the three major
credit rating agencies

 

It reviewed the financial and administrative
activities of seven field offices and
suggested improvements to strengthen risk
management. It provided advisory support
to address donors’ and cofinanciers’ audit
requirements, and completed four advisory
engagements on several internal processes.

To promote the professional development
of staff, in 2013, OAG established a 3-year
training plan for professional auditors.
OAG also completed the process for
selecting ADB’s external auditor for

the fiscal year 2014-2018 financial
statement audits.

Integrity and Anticorruption Activities
In 2013, ADB debarred 61 entities and
cross-debarred 324 entities for integrity
violations. Project procurement-related
reviews were conducted on sample
contracts for seven projects (totaling

$864 million) to ensure that funds were
used for their intended purposes.

In addition, ADB enhanced its due
diligence processes for detecting and
reviewing integrity breaches, money
laundering, and the financing of terrorism
concerns in potential projects. Forty-nine
integrity-focused training events were
conducted for ADB staff and stakeholders,
including executing agencies and supreme
audit institutions. ADB also strengthened
its cross-border anticorruption efforts
through partnerships with other multilateral
development banks and cofinanciers.

Information and Communication
Technology

ADB continuously implements new

and innovative IT solutions, and designs
and implements information and
communication technology (ICT) for
development initiatives under its portfolio.
The establishment of effective IT controls,
security, quality, risk management,
governance, and compliance are priorities
reinforcing its IT investment.

During 2013, ADB continued to implement
the second ICT strategy (2004-2014),
which aimed to modernize the information
systems and enhance connectivity

of headquarters with field offices for

ADB operations.

The third ICT strategy (2013-2018),
approved in early 2013, aims to provide
integrated communication, mobility, and
|T-enabled business processes. Aligned
with the Knowledge Management Action
Plan 2013-2015, this will help transform
ADB's IT environment and deliver
improved channels for disseminating
information to staff. The strategy will
deliver unified voice, video, and text;
cohesive data systems for analysis and
decision making; and further improve IT
system performance. It will also enable
collaboration with DMCs and other
external stakeholders. m

DELHI ANNUAL MEETING EXPLORES PEOPLE’S EMPOWERMENT

Dr. Manmohan Singh, Prime Minister of India, was among the guests who addressed nearly 5,000
participants at ADB’s 46th Annual Meeting of the Board of Governors in Delhi from 2 to 5 May 2013.
The meeting’s theme was “Development through Empowerment.” Participants included finance
ministers, bankers, business leaders, civil society organizations, and the media. Multilateral agencies
like ADB need more financial resources to help developing countries reach their development

potential, Dr. Singh said. Read more at adb.org/annual-meeting/2013

 

ADB ANNUAL REPORT 2013

48Board of Directors Working Group on the Annual Report 2013

Richard Sisson (Chair), Hideo Fukushima, Gaudencio Hernandez, Jr.,
René Legrand, Michael Strauss, Guogi Wu * Publisher Satinder
Bindra * Unit Head, Publishing Matthew Howells + Managing
Editor Andrew Perrin * Production Managers Wickie H. Mercado,
Miguel Paulino * Editorial Bruce Heilbuth, Sandra Lodoen, Anima
Slangen (ADB Member Fact Sheets), Ma. Cecilia Abellar, Tuesday
Soriano * Art Director Anthony Victoria * Design and Information
Graphics Cleone Baradas * Typesetting Edith Creus, Fred de Jesus.

The Board of Directors Working Group on the Annual Report 2013
would like to thank all ADB departments and offices for their significant contributions to this report.

© 2014 Asian Development Bank

Every effort has been made to ensure the accuracy of the data used
in this publication. Variations in data in ADB publications often
result from different publication dates, although differences may
also come from source and interpretation of data. ADB accepts no
responsibility from any consequence of their use.

By making any designation of or reference to a particular territory or
geographical area, or by using the term “country” in this document,
ADB does not intend to make any judgments as to the legal or other
status of any territory or area.

In this publication, “$” refers to US dollars.

ISSN 306-8370
Publication Stock No. FLS146353

Printed in the Philippines

Asian Development Bank

6 ADB Avenue, Mandaluyong City
1550 Metro Manila, Philippines
adbpub@adb.org

www.adb.org

&
Annual Report 2013 is printed using vegetable oil-based inks
on recycled paper.Alec! ota TeMNGl ENS
gel@and*® advan

Preenywerowiniin Asia and

5 i = OV ation ro

Neweed veto

| Uctures that

Ears webs

zialel Jos PesilientmyVe

=

  

re) Whaler ‘OOd
Tal ay! Water orl
Bley Tie itecer singly.-résource
elas ece ee Nifcid oper -Val if

to eT
ee ae tee)

need Wee

pt to ae ;

meg yale aise) yn ye

    
   
   
    
 

  

a

    

   

 
 
 

b-8370-X

30
8

77306
a