ANNUAL wom DO O 6

VOLUME 1

Asian Development BankCONTENTS

The Record 3

Chairman's Message 4
Board of Directors 6

40% Anniversary 14
Policy Overview 20
Financing Operations 36
Operations Overview 42
Central and West Asia 48
East Asia 58

Pacific 68

South Asia 80

Southeast Asia 90
Internal Initiatives 102
Appendixes 110

Contact Addresses 123
Websites 124

The ADB Annual Report 2006 comprises two separate volumes:

Volume 1 is the main report and Volume 2 contains the financial
statements and statistical annexes.The Record

(amounts in $ million)

 

 

 

 

 

1966-2006 2003 2004 2005 2006
OPERATIONAL ACTIVITIES
LENDING (amount) 123,201? 6,085 5,039? 5,761 7,396"
Number of Projects” 2,002 66 62 63 67°
Ordinary Capital Resources (OCR) Loans (amount) 90,523 4,706 3,797? 4,398 6,117
Number of Loans 1,126 37 31 31 35
Disbursements (amount) 60,797 2,688 2,508 3,498 4,420
Asian Development Fund (ADF) Loans (amount) 32,677° 1,379 1,242 1,362 1,279
Number of Loans 1,150 47 47 40 45
Disbursements (amount) 23,456 1,128 1,055 1,247 1,338
A. Sovereign Loans (amount) 120,456 5,918 4,947 5,248 6,821
Number of Projects? 1,903 62 58 58 59
Disbursements 82,447 3,703 3,454 4,541 5,399
OCR Loans (amount) 87,793 4,539 3,705 3,885 5,542
Number of Loans 1,026 33 27 25 26
Disbursements (amount) 59,006 2,575 2,399 3,294 4,061
ADF Loans (amount) 32,663 1,379 1,242 1,362 1,279
Number of Loans 1,145 47 47 40 45
Disbursements (amount) 23,441 1,128 1,055 1,247 1,338
B. Nonsovereign Loans (amount) 2,744 167 93 513 575
Number of Projects® 100 4 4 6 8
Disbursements (amount) 1,804 113 109 204 358
Public Sector (amount) 150 - - - 150°
Number of Projects? Z = = = 2
Disbursements (amount) 1 = = = 1
OCR Loans (amount) 150 = = = 150°
Number of Loans 2 = 5 = ae
Disbursements (amount) 1 - - - 1
ADF Loan (amount) as a i = i
Number of Loans - - - - Disbursements (amount) - - - - Private Sector (amount) 2,594 167 93 513 42s!
Number of Projects® 98 4 4 6 6
Disbursements (amount) 1,804 113 109 204 358
OCR Loans (amount) 2,580¢ 167 93° 513¢ 425!
Number of Loans 984 4 ae 6° 7
Disbursements (amount) 1,790 113 109 204 358
ADF Loans (amount) 14 = = a =
Number of Loans 5 = = = =
Disbursements (amount) 14 = 2 & _
EQUITY INVESTMENT (amount) 1,311 a 36 164 197° 261
Number of Investments 157 3 1 38° 14
EQUITY UNDERWRITING (amount) 40 = = = =
Number of Commitments 6 - - - GRANTS" (amount) 2,6024 454 104 1,150° 538
Number of Projects 187¢ 12 27 50° 43
TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE" (amount) 3,021° 175 192° 199 242
Number of Projects 6,1534 312 3174 299 260
MULTITRANCHE FINANCING FACILITIES' (amount) 5,330 ta * 1,520 3,810
Number of Facilities 10 - - BI 8
COFINANCING! (amount) 13,958 789 295 401 1,483
Number of Projects 1,062 95 110 111 103
Sovereign Operations (amount) 12,179 614 285 351 828
Number of Projects 1,025 93 109 110 96
Nonsovereign Operations (amount) 1,779 175 10 50 655‘
Number of Projects 37 2 1 1 zh
Guarantees (amount) 3,220 170° 10 68 125
Number of Projects 27 De 1 2) 3
Political Risk Guarantee (amount) 708° 0° 10 50 15
Number of Projects 9° oe 1 1 1
Partial Credit Guarantee (amount) 2,512 170 0 18 110
Number of Projects 18 2 0 1 2
RESOURCES (as of period end)
Ordinary Capital Resources
Authorized Capital 53,169 51,997 54,162 50,163 53,169
Subscribed Capital 53,169 51,997 54,162 50,163 53,169
Borrowings (gross) (for the period) 65,129 4,141 1,629 4,230 5,576
Outstanding Debt 27,601 26,359 24,212 24,454 27,601
Ordinary Reserve 8,994 8,892 8,865 8,957 8,994
Special Reserve 198 186 190 194 198
Gross Revenue (for the period) 35,849 1,657 1,313 1,432 1,839
Net Income after Appropriation of Guarantee Fees to Special Reserve (for the period) 12,044 436 427 105 566
Special Funds Resources
Asian Development Fund Total Resources 29,247 26,759 29,571 27,605 29,247
Technical Assistance Special Fund Total Resources 1,347 1,006 1,062 1,257 1,347
Japan Special Fund
Regular and Supplementary Contributions 929 853 877 904 929
Asian Currency Crisis Support Facility 241 241 241 241 241
ADB Institute Special Fund Total Resources 121 83 96 110 121
Asian Tsunami Fund Total Resources” 594 - - 565 594
Pakistan Earthquake Fund Total Resources" 114 = = 85 114

 

~= nil

a Totals may not add up because of rounding

b Projects with multiple loans are counted once. Cumulative number of projects excludes
supplementary loans.

c Includes loans arising from multitranche financing facilities.

d_ Adjusted to exclude terminated loans, equity investments, guarantees, technical assistance,
and grants.

e These are loans to companies in which public sector entities own more than 50% of the
capital or over which they exert management control in other ways.

f Of which $75 million has been reinsured

g_ Refers to nonsovereign operations only.

h Includes direct value-added cofinancing.

i Multitranche financing facilities are facilities that will give rise to loans. Loans arising from
the facilities are included under loans when approved by ADB.

j Starting 2006, cofinancing statistics indicate direct value-added cofinancing.

k Nonsovereign operations comprise total syndications and guarantees. Total syndications amount
to $530 million (B-loans for private sector projects, $105 million; B-loans for public sector projects,
$350 million; reinsurance [KfW guarantee], $75 million). Guarantees amount to $125 million.MESSAGE FROM THE PRESIDENT AND
CHAIRMAN OF THE BOARD OF DIRECTORS

ADB celebrated its 40th anniversary in 2006, looking back on 4 decades of cooperation with the
governments and peoples of Asia and the Pacific.
This region has made tremendous progress, helping
300 million people rise out of extreme poverty.

The region continued to show impressive growth
in 2006, with the People’s Republic of China and India
emerging as major players in the global economy. On
the other hand, about 1.9 billion people—nearly half
the population of this region—still live on $2 a day or
less. More than 620 million of them live in extreme
poverty on $1 a day or less. In this region of increasing prosperity, one in five people do not have access
to safe drinking water and almost 50% do without
proper sanitation. An estimated 4 million children died
before reaching their fifth birthday. Poverty in all its
aspects remains the region’s most daunting problem.

ADB therefore remains focused on its vision of an
Asia and Pacific region free of poverty. To help achieve
its goal of substantially reducing poverty in the region,
ADB adopted its second medium-term strategy to guide
its operations from 2006-2008. Responding to emerging
challenges in the region, the strategy is built around
five priorities: catalyzing investment for development,
strengthening inclusiveness, promoting regional cooperation and integration, managing the environment, and
improving governance and preventing corruption.

ADB's operational model was adjusted to support
these priorities. In particular, since ADB cannot do
everything everywhere and do it well, it identified core
sectors where it will focus its operations. These sectors,
in which ADB will build a critical mass of expertise,
include road transport, energy, urban infrastructure,
rural infrastructure, education, and financial services.
The sectors have been selected based on their relevance
to ADB's broad strategic priorities, client country
demands, and ADB's track record of quality project
delivery. In line with this selected focus, 73% of all
public sector loans and Asian Development Fund (ADF)
grants approved in 2006 were in these sectors.

To help ADB refine its longer-term goals, | convened
a panel of eminent people, led by UNCTAD Secretary

4

 

General Supachai Panitchpakdi, to advise ADB on key
trends and development challenges in the region. The
report of this Eminent Person's Group is an important
input to a comprehensive review of ADB's long-term
strategic framework to be conducted in 2007. The
report will be discussed at the Governor's Seminar
at ADB's 40th annual meeting in Kyoto, Japan.

At the Frankfurt meeting to review the progress
of ADF IX replenishments, ADF donors noted that
ADB had made significant progress in achieving some
aspects of its reform agenda. They called for a closer
alignment of the ADF grant framework with that of the
International Development Association, and a joint debt
sustainability assessment with the International Monetary
Fund and the World Bank. A Board paper on proposed
changes to the ADF grant framework to accommodate
these recommendations will be prepared in 2007.

In 2006, ADB adopted a regional cooperation
and integration strategy to fight poverty andADB President Haruhiko Kuroda visits Phu Chan Lower Secondary
School in Tu Son District, Bac Ninh Province, Viet Nam. The school is
being supported by ADB's Lower Secondary Education Development
Project, which is assisting the Viet Nam Government improve lower
secondary education

 

promote growth through collective action. In an
increasingly interdependent world, the new strategy
will enable ADB to move beyond the stand-alone
subregional programs of the past to a more strategic
approach to cooperation and integration.

One area where the world’s interdependence is
painfully obvious is that of greenhouse gas emissions and
climate change. As Asian economies continue their rapid
economic growth, their energy needs are rising sharply.
This is particularly true of the People’s Republic of China
and India. In 2006, ADB retained a focus on its clean
energy and environment program, promoting investments
in energy efficiency and further developing a carbon
market initiative to provide up-front financing and technical support to clean development mechanism projects.

To disseminate knowledge on these important issues, ADB
joined government and nongovernment development
partners in Asia to establish regional knowledge hubs.
ADB worked with other multilateral development
banks to organize an International Financial Institutions

Anti-Corruption Task Force that established a consistent
and harmonized approach to combat corruption in
the activities and operations of the institutions. This
initiative led to standardized definitions of fraudulent
and corrupt practices and common principles and
guidelines for investigations. ADB also worked with
other multilateral development banks in designing a joint
investment framework for clean energy and development. ADB continued to work with its bilateral and
multilateral development partners to harmonize strategies, programs, and procedures. ADB hosted the 2006
Asian Regional Forum on Aid Effectiveness to support
the implementation of the Paris Declaration in Asia.
Internally, ADB made important progress in
implementing its reform agenda to make the institution more relevant to the region, more responsive
to the needs of its members, and more focused on
achieving results. Among other things, ADB revised its
private sector development framework and developed
its second governance and anticorruption plan.

To better serve client countries at different
stages of development, ADB worked to clearly
define its separate approaches to guide its support to
middle-income and weakly performing countries.

For the second year in a row, ADB increased its
assistance to its developing member countries. ADB
approved loans, technical assistance, and grants
amounting to $8.17 billion in 2006 compared to $7.11
billion approved in 2005, and $5.34 billion approved
in 2004. Moving forward, we will continue to fight
poverty and inequity, promote inclusive development,
and contribute to building an Asia and Pacific region
where all have access to the essentials of life—education,
health, safe drinking water, and proper sanitation.

For 40 years, ADB has been a steadfast partner
in the region's development process. Our institution
is proud to be a part of the amazing economic and
social progress that has lifted hundreds of millions of
people out of poverty. We look forward to working
with all our members and shareholders as we take
the next steps on this journey toward greater and
more widely shared peace, security, and prosperity.

 

HARUHIKO KURODA

President and Chairman
Board of DirectorsBOARD OF
DIRECTORS

The Board of Directors strongly supports President Kuroda’s call for the
Asian Development Bank (ADB) to enhance its relevance, responsiveness,
and results orientation. These are key benchmarks for ADB's effectiveness
that require increasing both the quality and quantity of assistance. ADB is
gradually shifting from a focus on loan approvals to a focus on outcomes.
Its country strategies are becoming more selective, more responsive to
country priorities, and have better monitoring frameworks. Project design
frameworks have improved but need to continue to do so. The proportion
of projects at risk is declining and project performance has continued its
upward trend. Devoting sufficient attention to implementation and monitoring, however, remains an ongoing challenge.

The Board considered a number of new or revised policies and strategies that target ADB's greater relevance, responsiveness, and results orientation. These included the medium-term strategy, financing partnership
strategy, and regional cooperation and integration strategy. A recurrent
theme in discussions on policies was the need to ensure that they support
development in developing member countries without unduly burdening
them with conditions for ADB involvement. The policies’ resource implications were repeatedly raised in Board discussions, and Management and
staff were encouraged to strengthen the link between policy and strategic
priorities and ADB's resource allocation.

STRENGTHENING ADB'S STRATEGIC
FRAMEWORKS

ADB's second medium-term strategy (2006-2008) reorders ADB’s priorities,
including giving new emphasis to regional cooperation and integration. In
endorsing the regional cooperation and integration strategy, the Board
asked Management to concentrate on cross-border infrastructure and
regional public goods. In considering the approach of greater selectivity
and focus, the Board concluded that ADB needs to have strengths in key areas but must also be able to meet the most pressing development needs of

$¥o19a4Id4O auvogBOARD OF
DIRECTORS

Board approvals totaled $3.8 billion
in multitranche financing facilities
that will give rise to future loans
for increased development

a wide variety of developing countries. Weakly performing
countries have particular needs for policy advice, knowledge products, and institutional capacity building. Board
members stressed throughout the year the importance of
technical assistance in delivering knowledge and skills and
in strengthening capacity. Board members asked ADB to
intensify efforts to coordinate the work of the knowledge
departments and expressed increasing concern about
pressure on technical assistance resources, including as a
result of adopting new policies and priorities.

A review of ADB's long-term strategic framework
commenced, with an Eminent Persons Group established
to provide inputs. The Board welcomed the opportunity
to meet with the group and to discuss related issues at
the Board's annual retreat in October. The review of the
framework is a key means of helping ADB become as effective as possible. The Board looks forward to contributing
to the strategic choices that will be made as a result.

 

SCALING UP

ADB's approach to support middle-income countries
encompasses measures already taken under the innovation and efficiency initiative to scale up operations and
better meet the needs of these countries. These measures include new mechanisms such as the multitranche
financing facility. Board approvals totaled $3.8 billion in

Board members visit a solar/wind hybrid electricity system in
Afghanistan

 

multitranche financing facilities that will give rise to future
loans for increased development. Optimal governance
arrangements are still being developed to ensure that
new instruments such as the multitranche financing facility, subsovereign lending, and greater use of guarantees
not only provide more money more conveniently but also
deliver demonstrably stronger development outcomes.

COUNTRY PARTNERSHIP STRATEGIES

The Board discusses every country partnership strategy
(formerly the country strategy and program) that ADB
negotiates with its developing member countries. Board
discussion of a strategy guides its implementation. The
Board paid particular attention to responding to country
demands, strengthening the strategies’ results orientation,
and promoting greater focus and selectivity in the country
programs.

RISK MANAGEMENT

While considering the middle-income country strategy, the
Board debated the trend toward increased use of country
systems. Many members saw it as potentially positive, where
adequate capacity and transparency could be demonstrated,
but also as creating areas of vulnerability and risk that need to
be carefully managed. In discussions on credit enhancement
and in the Audit Committee, Board members welcomed
the evolution of ADB's risk management architecture but
pressed for a more comprehensive approach to identifying
and mitigating major risks facing the institution. They also
called for a strengthening of staff and managerial skills in risk
management.

TRANSACTION COSTS

The Board discussed ADB transaction costs on many
occasions. Board members share the desire to shorten the
project cycle where possible but also want ADB to uphold
high standards of quality, equity, and transparency. Getting
the balance right is a key institutional challenge, brought
into sharper focus in ADB's safeguard policies. Reviews
of these policies commenced in 2006. The Development
Effectiveness Committee considered two studies by the
Operations Evaluation Department on the environment
and resettlement and asked Management to diligently
work through the issue to deliver better outcomes for all
stakeholders.INSTITUTIONAL MANAGEMENT
AND OVERSIGHT

The year saw increasing calls for managerial changes that
would allow ADB to respond more quickly and effectively to
its clients. These included greater delegation of authority to
managers and staff to make sound professional judgments
and be held responsible for them. The operational role of vice
presidents has become better defined, and accordingly, they
contribute more substantively in steering the institution.

The Board saw some progress in human resources management in key areas such as introducing staff assessments that
more clearly distinguish between different levels of performance, strengthening management training, and designing
a competency framework. However, as the Board observed
during budget discussions, progress needs to become more
consistent and approaches less mechanistic to make the best
use of ADB's largely talented and committed staff.

The Board sought to play a greater role in the design
and approval of overarching strategies such as the second
medium-term strategy and to become involved earlier and
more deeply in the budget process. Board inputs helped
guide the internal administrative expense budgeting and
work program processes at various stages. The Board’s
discussion in September 2006 on the 3 year work program
and budget framework for 2007-2009 led to the finalization of the budget framework by Management, and further
served as policy guidance in finalizing the 2007 budget for
internal administrative expenses, approved by the Board
in December. The Board also gave its policy guidance on

 

 

 

a number of financial issues, most notably by approving
he new asset and liability management statement and the
borrowing program for 2007, as well as recommending
he allocation of net income for various uses.

IMPROVING BOARD EFFECTIVENESS

he Board recognizes that the demands for greater relevance,
responsiveness, and results challenge it to think and rethink
he way it operates and supports the overall reform process.
n doing this, the Board fully respects the provisions in the
Charter on its role, responsibilities, and functions.
The Board bears the ultimate responsibility for
approving the projects and programs funded by ADB. The
Board repeatedly emphasized its role in setting the policyevel strategic directions for ADB. It has streamlined some
of its procedures to be able to pay more attention to policy
and strategic issues.

The Board proposed a series of initiatives to improve
he quality of efficiency of its working procedures. These
initiatives relate to matters such as strengthening the

 

In March 2006, a group of five Board
members went to Afghanistan,
Pakistan, and Sri Lanka, and

in September another group

of five Board members visited
Indonesia and the PhilippinesBOARD OF

DIRECTORS

feedback to the Board by Management following Board
decisions, and how the Board arranges its formal and
informal meetings, including committee work and planning the Board agenda.

The Board held 45 formal meetings. It approved or discussed a number of strategy or policy papers (Appendix 3)
and approved 67 projects and programs. It held 36 informal seminars or sessions on a variety of sectoral, thematic,
or country-related topics.

Although the Board focuses mainly on strategic and
policy issues, it also tries to stay in close touch with the
operational part of ADB’s work. One means of doing this
is through visits by groups of Board members to developing member countries, both to have policy discussions
with the country authorities and to get firsthand information on the implementation of selected projects through
field visits. Two such Board group visits were arranged.
In March 2006, a group of five Board members went to
Afghanistan, Pakistan, and Sri Lanka, and in September
another group of five Board members visited Indonesia and
the Philippines, ADB’s host country. The Board appreciates
the experience and knowledge gained through such visits
and is grateful for the support of the host country authorities as well as of ADB Management and staff, particularly
in the resident missions.

BOARD COMMITTEES

The Board has standing committees for audit, budget
review, compliance review, and development effectiveness.
In 2006, the Ethics Committee was created. Membership
of the committees is shown in Appendix 6.

Audit Committee. The committee helps the Board
oversee ADB's financial reporting and audits, including

   

Board members visit the Day Care Room in a Women’s Resource Center
in Panabo City, Davao del Norte, Philippines, funded by the $1 million
Social Protection for Poor Women Vendors in Mindanao Cities Project
under ADB's Japan Fund for Poverty Reduction

10

internal controls. The committee operated under terms of
reference that had been expanded in the previous year to
include procurement policies and procedures in its review
of risk management.

The committee was satisfied that all audits were appropriate and in accordance with ADB's approved policies and
applicable auditing standards. The committee reviewed
quarterly financial statements and the annual management discussion and analysis, and considered applying
key financial and accounting systems using information
technology.

The committee made several recommendations, including to establish an integrated risk management framework;
monitor prepayments and any associated possible impact
on operating income; review progress in implementing cost
accounting systems and cost information systems in ADB;
and continue to periodically monitor the implementation
of accounting standards, including Financial Accounting
Standard 133 covering derivative instruments.

The committee met 10 times.

Budget Review Committee. The committee discussed
he President’s planning directions in preparation for the
work program and budget framework (2007-2009) and
exchanged views with the vice presidents on its key thrusts.
The committee noted that the work program and
budget framework is conceived as a business plan to allow
implementation of the second medium-term strategy,
ADB's commitments to the Paris Declaration on Aid
Effectiveness, and managing for development results. The
committee further noted ADB's efforts to scale up development effectiveness and improve institutional efficiency.
t reviewed the implementation status of the enhanced
separation program, discussed the sequestration and
redeployment of professional staff positions, and noted
he realignment of regional departments as an attempt to
balance resources among departments.

At midyear, the committee reviewed the operations
program and budget utilization status, including ADB-wide
efficiency measures supporting the second medium-term
strategy. The committee was also briefed about the price
and volume aspects of the 2007 budget; cost implications

 

The committee noted that the work
program and budget framework is
conceived as a business plan to allow
implementation of the second
medium-term strategyBoard members tour projects in Colombo Port, Sri Lanka

of new policies, strategies, and initiatives; and the budget
carryover concept for implementation, beginning from the
2007 budget.

The committee discussed the draft 2007 budget and
noted the need to provide an appropriate level of staff
and budgetary resources to support ADB’s priorities. The
committee made recommendations to ensure the effective
use of budgetary resources through strengthened linkage
between performance and budgetary allocations. The committee recommended approval of ADB’s 2007 budgets for
internal administrative expenses and annual capital expenditures as well as the 2007 budget of the ADB Institute.

The committee met seven times.

Compliance Review Committee. The committee,
set up under the ADB accountability mechanism, clears the
Compliance Review Panel’s proposed terms of reference
and time frame for conducting compliance reviews, and
reviews the panel's draft monitoring reports on implementation of remedial actions approved by the Board before
the panel finalizes them.

The committee discussed the panel's draft monitoring
reports on the implementation of the Board-approved
remedial actions in the Southern Transport Development
Project in Sri Lanka and the Chasma Right Bank Irrigation
Project (Stage Ill) in Pakistan. The committee met informally
with Management to be briefed on the progress in implementing the remedial actions. The committee checked on
the status of implementation as reported by the panel in its
monitoring reports and discussed whether Management's
actions had brought the project into compliance.

The committee met three times.

Development Effectiveness Committee. The committee continued to shift the focus of its review work from

individual operation evaluations to broader evaluations
at the country, sector, thematic, and policy levels. The
committee reviewed nine independent evaluation reports
by the Operations Evaluation Department, including three
country program evaluations. The committee is encouraged by increasing referrals to country assistance program
evaluation findings in the design of new country strategies.

The committee reviewed Management's annual reports
on the implementation of the poverty reduction strategy
and progress in managing for development results.

The committee ensured that Management adequately
considered key recommendations in the evaluation reports of the Operations Evaluation Department and that
these resulted in operational actions when Management
accepted them. Special attention was paid to monitoring implementation of the action plan to improve loan
and technical assistance portfolio performance that
Management had initiated at the end of 2005 in response
to the committee’s recommendation. The committee encouraged the Operations Evaluation Department to make
findings more accessible and to disseminate them more
widely. The committee continued to search for additional
ways of strengthening Board—Management dialogue on
portfolio performance and quality assurance.

The committee met 11 times.

Ethics Committee. The Board established the committee to address matters of ethics that may arise under
the Code of Conduct adopted by the Board in September
2006. The code provisions apply to all Board members
(directors, alternate directors, and temporary alternate
directors) and to the President.

The committee is responsible for advising directors, alternate directors, or the President when they request guidance
on actual or potential conflicts of interest or other ethical
issues concerning themselves. The committee also considers
any allegations of misconduct against directors, alternate
directors, or the President that relate to the performance of
their duties. It recommends appropriate action to the Board.

The committee did not meet in 2006.

The Development Effectiveness
Committee continued to shift

the focus of its review work from
individual operation evaluations to
broader evaluations at the country,
sector, thematic, and policy levels

11

sYyOLD3uIG

do auvogBOARD OF
DIRECTORS

BOARD OF DIRECTORS
AND MANAGEMENT

Board of Directors

 

 

President and Chairman of the Board of Directors (top right): Haruhiko Kuroda

Board of Directors (middle spread [left to right]): Executive Directors David Taylor (Austria,
Germany, Luxembourg, Turkey, United Kingdom); Patrick Pillon (Belgium, France, Italy, Portugal,
Spain, Switzerland); Agus Haryanto (Cook Islands, Fiji Islands, Indonesia, Kyrgyz Republic, New
Zealand, Samoa, Tonga); Ashok Saikia (Afghanistan, Bangladesh, Bhutan, India, Lao People’s
Democratic Republic, Tajikistan, Turkmenistan); Emile Gauvreau (Canada, Denmark, Finland,
Ireland, The Netherlands, Norway, Sweden); Stephen Sedgwick (Australia; Azerbaijan; Cambodia;
Federated States of Micronesia; Hong Kong, China; Kiribati; Nauru; Palau; Solomon Islands;
Tuvalu); Masaki Omura Vapan); Chol-Hwi Lee (Republic of Korea; Papua New Guinea; Sri Lanka;
Taipei,China; Uzbekistan; Vanuatu; Viet Nam); Xiaosong Zheng (People’s Republic of China); Sibtain
Fazal Halim (Kazakhstan, Maldives, Marshall Islands, Mongolia, Pakistan, Philippines, Timor-Leste);
Md. Saad Hashim (Brunei Darussalam, Malaysia, Myanmar, Nepal, Singapore, Thailand); Alternate
Executive Directors Tsuen-Hua Shih; Siew Juan Aw; Paul W. Curry; Atsushi Mizuno; Xiaolong Mo;
Marita MagpiliJimenez; Richard Stanley; Richard Moore; Nima Wangdi; Pasi Hellman; Sebastian
Paust; Jodo Simdes de Almeida

Management (bottom right [left to right]): Managing Director General Rajat Nag; Vice Presidents

Ursula Schaefer-Preuss, Khempheng Pholsena, Liqun Jin, and C. Lawrence Greenwood, Jr.; and
Secretary Jeremy Hoviand

12kJ| President and Chairman
| of the Board of Directors

 

 

 

SYOLD3uIG
4O auvog__ADB at 40

A Look at the PastAs 2006 drew to a close, ADB celebrated 40 years of fruitful cooperation
with the governments and peoples of the Asia and Pacific region, looking
back on phenomenal economic growth in the region alongside abiding
development challenges.

Opening in late 1966 in Asia, ADB helped its members develop what were

then largely agricultural economies.

63

n the postwar period
of rehabilitation

and reconstruction,

the United Nations
Economic Commission
or Asia and the Far
East held the first
Ministerial Conference
on Asian Economic
Cooperation, which
passed a resolution to
establish a financial
institution that would
be Asian in character to
oster economic growth
and cooperation in

the region, one of the
poorest in the world.

Manila, capital of the
Philippines, was chosen
rom among several
cities that offered to
host the new bank.

 

66

Takeshi Watanabe was
unanimously elected
ADB's first president
during the inaugural
meeting of the Board of
Governors, held in Japan
on 24-26 November
1966.

ADB opened in Manila,
Philippines, on 19
December 1966,

with 31 members to
serve a predominantly
agricultural region.

6/

ADB focused its assistance
on food production and
rural development. ADB
approved its first technical
assistance project to
support Indonesia’s food
grain production, and

its first regional technical
assistance project, for an
Asian agricultural survey.

 
 
  
  
  
  
 
 
 
 
  

68

ADB made its first loan
to a Thai development
finance institution for
onlending to private
industries. The first
agriculture loan was
made to Sri Lanka for
the modernization of tea
factories.

69

ADB approved its first
loan on concessional
terms from its Special
Funds resources for

an irrigation project in
Indonesia. ADB also
made its first energy
sector loan to Malaysia
for an electricity supply
project.

To augment ordinary
capital resources for
lending to developing
members, ADB issued its
first bond, a Deutsche
mark bond issue for
DM60 million ($16
million) in Germany.In the 1970s, ADB explored new sources and modalities of financing the region's
development.

ADB assistance expanded from agriculture into education and health, and then
to infrastructure and industry. When the world suffered its first oil price shock,
ADB shifted more of its assistance to support energy projects, especially those
promoting the development of domestic energy sources in member countries.

As operations expanded,
ADB mobilized additional
resources from bilateral
and other multilateral
institutions.

Cofinancing operations
began to provide
additional resources
for ADB projects and
programs.

ADB's first bond

issue in Asia—worth
$16.7 million—was made
in Japan. This was the first
time that yen bonds were
sold to the public in Japan
by a foreign entity.

ADB made its first
education loan, to
Singapore for a college
expansion project; and
its first multisector loan,
to the Lao People’s
Democratic Republic for
agriculture development.

Shiro Inoue assumed
the presidency, to be
succeeded by Taroichi
Yoshida in 1976.

The Asian Development
Fund was established

to provide concessional
lending to ADB's poorest

‘ ‘ members.
Technical assistance

projects emphasized
institution building and
training of local staff.

  
 
     
     
       
       
   
     
     
   
 
 
 
 
    

ADB approved its first
loan in the health sector
to Hong Kong, China.

ADB's annual lending
reached the $1 billion
mark. At the close of
the decade, some Asian
economies had improved
considerably and
graduated from ADB's
regular assistance.

The gradual emergence
of Asian economies

in the 1970s spurred
demand for better
infrastructure to support
economic growth.

ADB focused on
improving roads and
providing electricity.

ADB approved its

first program loan for
industry, for the cement
industry program in
Myanmar; its first loan
for rural electrification,
in Sri Lanka; and its first
multiproject loan, in
Tonga.As it became clear that the private sector was an important ally in driving growth,
ADB made its first direct equity investment in the private sector. ADB also began
to use its track record to mobilize additional resources for development from the
private sector.

As global awareness grew about the sometimes uneven benefits and negative
impacts of unregulated development, ADB strengthened its monitoring of gender
and environmental issues. While still assisting energy and other infrastructure
projects, ADB also increased its support to social infrastructure.

82 83 8

Masao Fujioka became
ADB President in 1981,
to be succeeded by

To bring operations
closer to their intended
beneficiaries, ADB opened

Private sector development
was deemed crucial to
economic growth, leading

ADB opened its first
regional office in the Pacific
in Port Vila, Vanuatu.

ADB to make its first direct
equity investment in a
private sector project to a
development investment
corporation in the Republic
of Korea.

86

A pool-based variable
lending rate system was
introduced at a time of
increasing globalization
and deregulation.

KimimasaTarumizu in
1989.

its first resident office, in
Dhaka, Bangladesh.

In the wake of the second
oil crisis, ADB continued its
support to infrastructure
development, particularly
energy projects.

  
  
 
 
    
  
 
 
   
   
   
   
   
   
    

ADB increased its support
to social infrastructure,
including gender, microfinance, environmental,
education, urban planning,
and health issues. The Board of Directors
approved a policy
supporting collaboration
with nongovernment
organizations (NGOs) to
address the basic needs

of disadvantaged groups
in developing member
countries, and to support
improved natural resources
management and
conservation.

85

The Board of Directors
took action to include
women more effectively in
the development process,
approving a policy on

the role of women in
development.

The first loan for primary
education was approved
for Pakistan.ADB declared poverty reduction as its overarching goal.

When several Asian countries suffered a severe financial crisis, ADB responded
with projects and programs to strengthen financial sectors and create social safety
nets for the poor.

9295

    
   
   
   
   
    

sag saat int

ADB began promoting
regional cooperation,
forging close ties among
neighboring countries
through an economic
cooperation program

in the Greater Mekong
Subregion.

Mitsuo Sato assumed
ADB's presidency, and
was succeeded by Tadao
Chino in 1999.

 

a
a=

a

dl

 

     
   

 

As the Internet continued
to expand its reach into
homes and offices, ADB
set up its website (www.
adb.org).

ADB became the first
multilateral organization
to have a Board-approved
governance policy to
ensure that development
assistance benefits the
poor. Policies on the
inspection function,
involuntary resettlement,
and indigenous peoples—
designed to protect the
rights of people affected
by a project—were also
approved.

ADB established its first
representative office in
North America.

 

 
 
 
 
 
 
      
   
     
     
   
   
   
   
   
   
    
 

 

96 Q/

ADB established its
representative offices in
Europe and Japan.

Following the end of

the cold war, the former
Soviet republics of Central
Asia, in transition from
centrally planned to
market economies, joined
ADB and the Central

Asia Regional Economic
Cooperation program
formed by ADB and other
multilateral institutions in
1997.

A severe financial crisis

gains in Asia. In response,
ADB approved its largest
single loan—a $4 billion
emergency loan to the
Republic of Korea—and
established the Asian
Currency Crisis Support
Facility to accelerate
assistance.

The ADB Institute was

to conduct research and
build capacity to help
developing member
countries identify
development strategies
and improve project
management.

   

 

hit, setting back economic

established as a subsidiary

ADB adopted poverty
reduction as its
overarching goal and
approved several vital
policies relating to
indigenous peoples,
cooperation with NGOs,
and anticorruption
efforts.The new century brought both hope and tragedy. Responding to unprecedented
natural disasters and conflict in its member countries, ADB provided disaster relief
and postconflict assistance.

ADB introduced clean energy initiatives to make the region, and the world, a better

place. It initiated a Water for All program to provide clean water around the region.

ADB formulated its first
long-term strategic
framework to guide
operations from 2001 to
2015.

Two medium-term
strategies were approved,
covering 2001-2005 and
2006-2008 to strengthen
the poverty-reducing
impact of ADB assistance.

A major reorganization
at the start of the
decade focused on
country operations. ADB
committed to help its
developing members
achieve the Millennium
Development Goals and
to enhance development
effectiveness.

Q2

ADB assisted countries
in postconflict situations
such as Afghanistan,
where ADB resumed
operations after 22
years, and the newly
independent country of
Timor-Leste.

The Board of

Directors approved an
environment policy,
which aims to promote
the environmental
sustainability of ADB's
development assistance.

é

Q3

When the severe acute
respiratory syndrome
(SARS) hit the region, it
became clear that fighting
infectious diseases was a
public good that required
regional cooperation.
ADB began providing
support at both national
and regional levels to
help member countries
respond to HIV/AIDS and
avian influenza.

 
   
  
 
  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
    

O4

ADB adopted a reform
agenda that includes
various initiatives, chief
among them managing
for development results.
ADB approved the first
project under its clean
development mechanism
facility for a coal mine
methane project in the

People’s Republic of China.

The Board of Directors
approved a policy to help
countries prepare for

and mitigate the impact
of disasters. At the end
of 2004, a tsunami hit
many ADB member
countries in the Indian
Ocean. ADB hosted a
high-level meeting on the
reconstruction of affected
areas and established the
Asian Tsunami Fund to
channel funds specifically
to regional disaster relief
and reconstruction.

ADB's first female vice
president, Khempheng
Pholsena, was appointed.

O5

Haruhiko Kuroda became
ADB President.

The Board of Directors
approved a policy of
disclosure of information
to increase transparency
and accountability. ADB
committed more than
$850 million for recovery
in the tsunami-hit areas
of India, Indonesia,
Maldives, and Sri Lanka.
It opened a $1 billion
line of assistance to help
victims of the earthquake
in Pakistan.

06

A strategy promoting
regional cooperation

and integration was
adopted in 2006 to

fight poverty through
regional collective action.
Anew medium-term
strategy was approved to
strengthen the poverty
reduction impact of ADB's
assistance.POLICY
OVERVIEW:
IMPROVING
EFFECTIVENESS

ADB continued to operate in an economically buoyant region, where aggregate gross domestic product (GDP) grew 8.3% in 2006 (Asian Development
Outlook 2007). Steady growth kept the region on track to achieve the
Millennium Development Goal of halving the number of people living on
less than $1 per day between 1990 and 2015. Growth, however, was not
evenly distributed among and within countries, and the Asia and Pacific
region remained home to more than 620 million people living on less than
$1 per day. The region made much less progress in achieving the non-income
Millennium Development Goals such as access to safe drinking water and
proper sanitation facilities, and improved health and education. The rapid pace
of growth highlighted the pressing need to develop and upgrade the region's
infrastructure and to ensure sustainable management of natural resources.

As part of the efforts to enhance its relevance, responsiveness, and
results orientation, ADB continued to sharpen its strategic focus under its
ongoing internal reform agenda to make ADB more cooperative, flexible,
and efficient. This agenda aims to strengthen operational policies, strategies, and approaches; mainstream managing for development results;
refine organizational processes and structures; reinforce knowledge management; and improve human resources management and staff incentives.
Five new or revised initiatives identified under the agenda were adopted
in 2006: ADB’s second medium-term strategy, the regional cooperation
and integration strategy, the revised strategic private sector development
framework, enhanced ADB support to middle-income countries and
ordinary capital resources (OCR) borrowers, and the second governance
and anticorruption plan. Business processes have been refined and new
financial instruments introduced.

ADB worked closely with other multilateral development banks and
bilateral donors to harmonize strategies, programs, and procedures to
improve aid effectiveness regionally. ADB hosted the 2006 Asian Regional
Forum on Aid Effectiveness to facilitate the implementation of the Paris
Declaration in Asia. ADB played a key role in the Asia 2015 conference held
in London in March 2006 to identify future challenges and solutions for the

21

MAalAdSAO
ADN0dThe second medium-term strategy (2006-2008) aims to strengthen the
poverty reduction impact of ADB’s assistance programs

region, and to build new alliances to fight poverty in Asia.
More specifically, ADB took joint action with other multilateral development banks to promote better governance
and combat corruption, promote clean energy, and reduce
vulnerability to the avian influenza pandemic. Together
with other development partners, ADB helped establish
an International Financial Institutions Anti-Corruption Task
Force, which developed a uniform framework for preventing and combating fraud and corruption. Jointly with other
multilateral development banks, ADB has helped develop a
joint investment framework for clean energy and development,
with a progress report discussed at the September meeting of
the Development Effectiveness Committee. ADB has taken
the lead in energy efficiency in the transport sector under this
framework.

The development of the second medium-term strategy, which was finalized after discussion by the Board of
Governors at the 2006 Annual Meeting in Hyderabad,
India, marked a milestone in taking forward the internal
reform agenda. The strategy was prepared to guide
ADB's operations for 3 years, from 2006 to 2008. This is
a transitional period during which the long-term strategic
framework will be reviewed, and a new long-term strategic
direction established to respond to the emerging challenges

22

in the region. As a strategy for this transitional period, the
second medium-term strategy combines continuity and
change. The main purpose of the strategy is to strengthen
the poverty impact of ADB’s assistance programs. Hence, in
many respects, the priorities identified in the strategy reflect
themes that were already identified in the poverty reduction
strategy and the first medium-term strategy. Some of these
themes were further elaborated in separate papers.

As a result of rapid development in the region, ADB
deals with a diverse set of client countries, from weakly
performing countries to low-income Asian Development
Fund (ADF) recipients to rapidly growing middle-income
countries. Recognizing this diversity, particularly the special
needs of weakly performing countries, ADB undertook
other initiatives parallel to the second medium-term
strategy. These include preparation of ADB's Approach to
Engaging with Weakly Performing Countries: Achieving
Development Effectiveness in Weakly Performing Countries.
To be presented to the Board of Directors in 2007, this
paper is expected to call for greater use of grant assistance
and closer partnership. Other initiatives in 2006 included a
midterm review of operations under the eighth replenishment of ADF resources (ADF IX) in eligible ADF recipient
countries, which was discussed with representatives of ADF
donor countries in Frankfurt, Germany, on 4-5 December
2006; and the development of a coherent framework of
initiatives for enhancing ADB support to middle-income
countries and OCR borrowers.

The second medium-term strategy recommends several
adjustments in ADB's operational model. These include
greater sector focus and selectivity; product and process
innovations to enhance ADB’s responsiveness, flexibility,
and efficiency; and greater emphasis on portfolio performance, development effectiveness, and results. Most of the
innovations were introduced in the context of the innovation and efficiency initiative. ADB pays greater attention to
the readiness and implementation of current projects and
is streamlining managing for development results into the
entire project cycle, from development of results-based
country partnership strategies to systematic application

 

 

ADB took joint action with other
multilateral development banks to
promote better governance and
combat corruption, promote clean
energy, and reduce vulnerability
to the avian influenza pandemicof results-monitoring frameworks in projects and internal
processes at all levels.

PRIORITIES UNDER THE SECOND
MEDIUM-TERM STRATEGY

The second medium-term strategy strengthens the poverty
reduction impact of ADB's assistance and helps developing
member countries meet their Millennium Development
Goals. The strategy has five priorities: catalyzing investment,
strengthening inclusiveness, promoting regional cooperation
and integration, managing the environment, and improving
governance and preventing corruption. In many respects, they
reflect themes already identified under the first medium-term
strategy and carry forward its unfinished agenda.

CATALYZING INVESTMENT

The sharp reduction in income poverty in the region in
recent years is primarily attributable to high growth.
However, there is a risk that growth may falter because
of the poor investment climate. The second medium-term
strategy emphasizes the need to help developing member
countries improve the investment climate by supporting
policy and institutional reforms, infrastructure development, and the development of quality human resources
through investments in education and health. ADB will also
seek to use its wide range of products to leverage cofinancing with public and private sector partners. ADB’s revised
strategic framework for private sector development (adopted
in February 2006) provides greater strategic clarity on private
sector development at the corporate level. The new strategic
framework aims to create an enabling environment for
private sector development, mobilize additional finance, and
develop ways of financing public goods and services. ADB's
new financing partnership strategy (adopted in July 2006)
will also facilitate the implementation of this framework. This

ADB's revised strategic framework
for private sector development aims
to create an enabling environment
for private sector development,
mobilize additional finance,

and develop ways of financing
public goods and services

The second medium-term strategy
strengthens the poverty reduction
impact of ADB’s assistance and helps
developing member countries meet
their Millennium Development Goals

strategy enables ADB to be a more proactive and effective
financing partner by shifting the focus from reactive and input-oriented cofinancing toward proactive and value-added
financing partnerships, improving client orientation and
selectivity, deepening and expanding the range of financing
partnerships, ensuring relevance of products and services,
improving access to knowledge, and fostering innovation in
ADB, and introducing new approaches and changes in the
business model in a phased manner.

STRENGTHENING INCLUSIVENESS

Although growth has helped reduce poverty, the benefits
have not been evenly distributed. To strengthen inclusiveness, the second medium-term strategy underlines the
importance of expanding productive employment in rural
areas and generating higher productivity and wage incomes
in the informal urban sector, combined with measures to
address the non-income dimensions of poverty.

ADB helps its developing member countries strengthen
inclusiveness to ensure equitable and sustainable development. Through its policy of inclusiveness, ADB encourages
greater equity in access to services, resources, and opportunities; the active participation of poor and marginalized
groups in social, economic, and political life; and household-level security to cope with chronic or sudden risks,
especially among poor and marginalized groups.

The second medium-term strategy lays fresh emphasis
on investing in key social development interventions to
promote gender equality by supporting education for
girls, better health for girls and women, and microfinance
projects that help women.

PROMOTING REGIONAL
COOPERATION AND INTEGRATION

Regional cooperation and integration strengthens the
growth potential of individual countries, thereby strengthening their capacity to reduce poverty. Integration helps link
and better align growth in the smaller and less-developed
countries with the faster-growing economies. Regional

23

MaAIAYSAO
ADNOdPOLICY
OVERVIEW

cooperation and integration also serve as a platform for
regional initiatives to manage cross-border environmental
and health risks. The second medium-term strategy mainstreams regional cooperation and integration as a means
to reinforce country-level efforts to reduce poverty by
supporting cross-border infrastructure to strengthen connectivity, promoting monetary and financial cooperation,
developing advisory capacity for trade and investment
cooperation and integration, and playing a larger role in
providing regional public goods.

Gender and
Development Policy

Two thirds of the world’s poor live in the Asia and Pacific
region. Most are women. In many societies, women
are denied access to basic services and essential assets
such as land, and are excluded from decision making.
Empowering women economically and socially is
crucial to achieving ADB's goal of poverty reduction.
ADB adopted its policy on gender and development
in 1998. A review of the policy's implementation
experience after 5 years was completed in 2006,
and included desk studies, consultations with and
technical inputs from ADB’s External Forum on Gender
and Development, and selective consultations with
developing member country officials and ADB staff.
Aside from assessing the gender quality of ADB loans
at entry, the implementation review also involved rapid
gender assessments of the impacts of selected loans
with gender-responsive designs being implemented
in Bangladesh, Cambodia, Nepal, and Pakistan.
While the projects and programs were at various
stages of implementation, the gender assessments
were able to identify some with intermediate gender
impacts. The most impressive were found in projects
that included a detailed project gender action plan
linked to the project’s main components with clear
targets and indicators for monitoring. These were
mainly agriculture and rural development projects in
which ADB’s resident mission gender consultants had
worked closely with the executing agency to develop,

24

ADB's regional cooperation and integration strategy,
adopted in July 2006, lays out in greater detail how ADB
plans to intensify its support in this area. It lists four ways
by which ADB can support and promote cooperation and
integration in the Asia and Pacific region: provide financial
resources for regional cooperation and integration projects
and programs, provide related technical assistance, and
help countries mobilize funds and technical assistance
from other sources; create, consolidate, and disseminate
knowledge and information on regional cooperation and

refine, and implement a detailed gender action plan.

The rapid gender assessments provide strong
evidence that including comprehensive project gender
action plans in loans significantly improves the project's
results for women, promotes gender equality, and
empowers women. Project gender action plans are
found to be an effective tool for gender mainstreaming
as they provide a road map for implementing
the project’s gender design features. It is thus
recommended that they be applied more systematically
to the design of ADB loans.

The full reports of the implementation review of
ADB's policy on gender and development and the rapid
gender assessments are at www.adb.org/Gender/gadreview.asp.

Empowering women
economically and socially is
crucial to reducing poverty

 

ADB's gender policy helps empower poor womenADB works to minimize the adverse impact of growth on the environment

integration; help countries and regional or subregional
bodies build institutional capacity to manage regional
cooperation and integration; and catalyze and coordinate
regional cooperation and integration in Asia.

MANAGING THE ENVIRONMENT

Strong demographic pressures and high growth are both
taking a heavy toll on rural and urban environments. Poor
people typically bear the greatest burden of pollution and
environmental degradation. ADB will focus its assistance
on energy efficiency, urban environment improvement,
and sound natural resources management. As part of
this effort, ADB completed the first phase and began
implementing the second phase of the energy efficiency
initiative, a three-phase program launched in 2005 that
aims to expand ADB's investments in clean energy projects.
More specifically, the second phase of the initiative will
aim to develop country-level and regional strategies and
action plans to meet the targets already set, explore the
possibility of establishing an Asia-Pacific fund for energy

ADB will focus its assistance
on energy efficiency, urban
environment improvement,
and sound natural resources
management

 

efficiency, develop the necessary institutional capacity in
ADB to scale up as well as to monitor and evaluate activities implemented under the initiative, and implement
immediate energy efficiency investment opportunities.

ADB's carbon market initiative was adopted in
November 2006 to respond to issues of energy security
and global climate change. It aims to enhance the viability
of alternative clean energy sources in developing countries
and help developed countries meet their greenhouse gas
emission commitments under the Kyoto Protocol.

ADB has launched three interrelated programs to
fill existing market gaps to help project designers in
its developing member countries positively engage
with the carbon market: the establishment of the AsiaPacific Carbon Fund, a dedicated project cofinancing
facility; the provision of specialist technical support for
clean development mechanism developers and projects
through a technical support facility; and the provision
of marketing support services to the project developers
to promote the sale of carbon credits through a credit
marketing facility.

IMPROVING GOVERNANCE
AND PREVENTING CORRUPTION

Good governance is critical for poverty reduction, as
weak governance hurts the poor disproportionately. ADB
recognizes the essential role of governance in development. Governance is closely related to equitable and

25

M<AIAYIAO
AQNOdPOLICY
OVERVIEW

inclusive growth. It is also important for private sector
efficiency. Under the second medium-term strategy, ADB
will undertake more focused governance activities and
renew its commitment to fighting corruption. Priority
activities will focus on public financial management,
including procurement, public expenditure management,
legal and regulatory work, and capacity development
in sectors and subsectors where ADB is active. ADB
will work closely with other multilateral development
banks to develop a common framework for preventing
corruption. To enhance ADB support in these areas, the
implementation of ADB's governance and anticorruption
policies was comprehensively reviewed. The second governance and anticorruption action plan was adopted in July
2006 based on the findings and conclusion of the review.
The plan is focused on improving risk assessments, ensuring
that risks are properly taken into account during project
design, increasing attention to project implementation, and
improving staff skills in these areas.

MEETING DIVERSE CLIENT NEEDS

As a result of rapid development in the region, ADB deals
with a significantly more diverse set of countries today
than it did a few decades ago. ADB’s support therefore
needs to be highly customized to the development needs
of each group of countries. In parallel to the overall institutional strategy laid out in the second medium-term
strategy, ADB worked on distinct approaches to deal with
these different groups of countries.

WEAKLY PERFORMING COUNTRIES

Many of the region’s poor people live in developing
member countries with weak governance, ineffective
public administration, and civil unrest. In many of these
countries, large-scale and violent civil conflict has impaired
the government's ability to guarantee people’s security.
In such a setting, achieving the Millennium Development
Goals is difficult.

The second medium-term strategy calls for a special
approach to dealing with weakly performing countries
and warns of the dangers of a lack of, or limited, engage
ADB will undertake more focused
governance activities and renew its
commitment to fighting corruption

26

 

Poor people typically bear the greatest burden of pollution and
environmental degradation

ment with them. ADB's current approach is based on its
strategic framework and its performance-based allocation
system, which tends to channel more funds to countries
that perform well based on set criteria, including good
governance. However, this could mean that the countries
needing the most assistance in improving governance
and reducing poverty may get less help because of their
poor performance.

Effective assistance programs in weakly performing
countries must be based on country ownership and bolstered by systematic capacity development. ADB plans to
respond to the need for capacity building by mobilizing
greater technical assistance and other grant financing
from its partners. ADB operations in weakly performing
countries will involve partnerships at all stages and will
require ADB to pursue cofinancing opportunities. ADB
continues to refine its approach to identifying and defining
weak performance, rethink its operational planning, and
adapt its business processes and instruments to ensure
that its engagement is suitable and effective for individual
weakly performing countries and is consistent with the
Paris Declaration.

A background paper on the subject was prepared and
discussed during the ADF IX midterm review exercise in
Frankfurt, Germany, in December 2006. A Board paper
on ADB's Approach to Engaging with Weakly Performing
Countries: Achieving Development Effectiveness in Weakly
Performing Countries is expected to be submitted to the
Board of Directors in 2007.ADF RECIPIENT COUNTRIES, THE
ADF IX MIDTERM REVIEW

On 4-5 December 2006 in Frankfurt, ADF deputies from
donor countries, representatives from ADF borrowing
members, and observers from other international development institutions met with ADB Management and
staff to review the progress of ADF IX implementation
(2005-2008). Two vice presidents for operations headed
the ADB team. The discussion emphasized the need for
ADB to continue its focus on poverty reduction, with

Pathways Out
of Poverty

A study completed in 2006 challenges some key
assumptions underlying ADB's poverty targeting in rural
areas. Given that poverty reduction is ADB’s overarching
goal and that most of the poor still live in rural areas, the
study has far-reaching implications for future projects.

A key recommendation of Pathways Out of Rural
Poverty and the Effectiveness of Poverty Targeting
is to tailor projects to address the specific causes of
poverty in a particular area instead of providing a
standard package of rural infrastructure and agricultural
development.

The study argues against a too-narrow focus on
poor households in poor areas as this can isolate the
poor from the more dynamic actors in society and
from the mainstream of economic growth. Supporting
economic activity led by the nonpoor could create jobs
for the poor and lift them out of poverty.

The study—conducted in the People’s Republic of
China, Malaysia, and Viet Nam—found that most of
those who had risen out of poverty had done so by
migrating to areas with more dynamic growth.

Poverty targeting has been widely used in
development projects to channel funds to poor regions
or deliver benefits to poor households and, in particular,
to upgrade rural infrastructure or support agricultural
production. The study challenges the assumptions that
this approach is based on—that poor people live in
poor regions, that public investment in poor regions

greater effort to demonstrate a link between ADF operations and poverty reduction.

In this context, a midterm report prepared by ADB's
Operations Evaluation Department was submitted to ADF
donors. To provide some indication of the results achieved
by ADF-funded public sector projects, their success rates
were compared with those of OCR-funded projects over
time. The analyses found that 70% of OCR projects were
rated successful compared with 58% of ADF-funded
projects, although both OCR and ADF ratings converged
and improved markedly in recent years. This result should

automatically reduces poverty, and that the solution to
poverty in a poor region lies within that region.

The study found that the bulk of the rural poor live in
less-poor regions, the location of projects in poor regions
does not guarantee significant poverty reduction, and
solutions to persistent rural poverty in remote and poorly
endowed regions often lie in economic growth outside
those regions.

The full report is at http://adb.org/Documents/SES/
REG/Rural-Poverty-Targeting/ses-poverty-targeting.asp

Supporting economic activity
led by the nonpoor could
create jobs for the poor and
lift them out of poverty

 

 

Most of the region’s poor live in rural areas

27

MalAYaAO
ADN10dPOLICY
OVERVIEW

ADF IX resource mobilization has
been smooth so far because of
timely donor contributions

not be surprising as ADF is allocated to poorer countries,
which often face daunting development challenges mainly
because of country-specific initial conditions and weaker
institutional capabilities.

Overall, ADF participants supported aligning the ADF
grant framework with that of the International Development
Association 14 in 2007, and requested further review and
analysis of the financial implications of the change to be
made before ADF X negotiations. Participants also suggested
that ADB participate in preparing a joint debt sustainability
assessment with the International Monetary Fund and the
World Bank, and prepare a separate assessment only in
countries where these institutions are not preparing one.
ADB will prepare a Board paper on the proposed changes to
the ADF grant framework that will reflect the comments.

Participants voiced strong support for the revised
performance-based allocation policy and especially welcomed the increased rigor and transparency in the system.
Participants appreciated the issues raised by ADB regarding
the new system’s outcomes such as the shift of resources
away from countries eligible only for ADF funding, the
volatility of allocations, and the challenge of ensuring
cross-country comparability of assessments conducted
by different country teams. Participants requested further
analysis of the issues raised and urged ADB to continue
the close coordination with the International Development
Association and the African Development Fund to address
performance-based allocation implementation issues. ADB
will present its analysis and recommendations on such
issues to the donors during ADF X negotiations.

Donors agreed that ADB should participate in debt
relief of heavily indebted poor countries if any ADF
recipient country becomes eligible, while reaffirming
the need to maintain the financial viability of the ADF
and not to impair support for ADF recipient countries.
Donors noted their willingness to discuss additional
funding for financing debt relief to heavily indebted
poor countries—consistent with the treatment of debt
relief by other multilateral development banks—during
the ADF X negotiations. They stressed that ADB should
maximize the use of its internal resources but that any
financing should not undermine the financial integrity of
ADB. The vice presidents noted that, in light of donors’
willingness to cover some of the cost of debt relief, ADB

28

was willing to discuss burden sharing to cover those
costs. Management will consider these issues, and a
Board paper further analyzing the financial implications
of debt relief under various scenarios will be prepared.
ADB noted that ADF IX resource mobilization has been
smooth so far because of timely donor contributions.
Participants endorsed the proposal to use the special
drawing rights composite discount rate to calculate credits
‘or new donor participants in the accelerated note encashment program. They endorsed the proposal to reduce
Nauru’s contribution to ADF. Participants supported an
ADF liquidity management policy and investment guideines, which ADB will prepare by the end of 2007.
Participants agreed to hold an informal meeting on
he sidelines of the ADB Annual Meeting in May 2007 to
plan for ADF X negotiations. In particular, participants
indicated that they hoped to see more progress in the
implementation of the ADB human resources strategy
and clearer reporting on ADF outcomes during ADF X
negotiations. While noting some progress by ADB,
they felt much more needed to be accomplished. Some
participants raised concerns on the centralized admin
 

 

ADB encourages greater equity in access to services, resources, and
opportunitiesistration of human resources and budget, emphasizing
insufficient control and flexibility over these functions by
the vice presidents and decisions that are not seen as
transparent. Many participants called for the next staff
engagement survey to be brought forward and suggested an independent progress review of the human
resources strategy. Participants welcomed the changes
in staff evaluation embodied in the performance and
development plans. They urged greater effort to institute
a merit-based system of staff selection and promotion
at all levels. Participants pressed for greater efforts to
achieve gender balance in ADB also at the senior levels.
ADB acknowledged the importance of these issues and
agreed to consider ways to address them.

MIDDLE-INCOME COUNTRIES
AND OCR BORROWERS

Providing effective assistance to middle-income countries
and borrowers from OCR is essential if ADB is to achieve its
vision of an Asia and Pacific region free from poverty. OCRborrowing countries are home to two thirds of the world’s
poor living below $1 dollar a day and account for the bulk
of ADB lending operations. In recent years up to 2004, the
OCR public sector portfolio had experienced little change
in the annual numbers of new loans approved, increased
concentration in a limited number of countries and sectors,
stable disbursements, and high cancellation rates. In 2006,
disbursements and new approvals increased significantly.

To address these concerns, in June 2004, ADB began
exploring how it could enhance its support to OCR borrowers. The work focused on three mutually reinforcing
objectives: review the main development challenges facing
this diverse group of countries, articulate the countries’
demands and expectations of ADB’s role in helping them
meet these challenges, and discuss how ADB can improve
its services to OCR borrowers.

On 7 April 2006, ADB and the World Bank jointly organized a consultation meeting with senior officials from various
Asian middle-income countries at ADB headquarters. The
main objective of the consultation meeting was to assess

Providing effective assistance

to middle-income countries and
borrowers from OCR is essential if
ADB is to achieve its vision of an Asia
and Pacific region free from poverty

whether the current set of reforms under adoption and
implementation was sufficient to meet the development
needs of middle-income countries. The event promoted an
active exchange of views and valuable feedback.

The work culminated in the preparation of a paper,
Enhancing ADB Support to Middle-Income Countries and
OCR Borrowers, outlining a coherent framework for ongoing and planned initiatives in this area. The paper, which the
ADB Board of Directors discussed in August 2006, would
serve as a basis to monitor progress over time. The initiatives
were grouped into three main areas: reducing the costs of
doing business with ADB, expanding and enhancing ADB's
operational instruments, and enhancing the quality of
ADB's services. Many of these initiatives were developed as
part of the innovation and efficiency initiative.

MODERNIZING THE
OPERATIONAL MODEL

The second medium-term strategy proposes several adjustments in ADB's operational model to better align it with
the five strategic priorities outlined under Strengthening
rategic Priorities under the Second Medium-Term Strategy
pages 23-26). The most important of these include
greater sector focus and selectivity; product and process
innovations to enhance responsiveness, flexibility, and
efficiency—most were developed as part of the innovation and efficiency initiative; and increased emphasis on
portfolio performance, development, and results as part of
ADB's broader effort to manage for development results.

GREATER SECTOR SELECTIVITY

~wW

 

ADB recognizes that it cannot be effective in all sectors
and in all countries. Selectivity and focus are important
determinants of ADB's ability to deliver quality development results. The second medium-term strategy identifies
core sectors where ADB will focus its operations and build
a critical mass of expertise. These sectors have been identified based on their relevance to ADB's broad strategic
priorities, clients’ demand for ADB assistance in these
sectors, and ADB's track record of quality project delivery.

Group | covers core operational sectors where ADB will
build up a critical mass of expertise and be a leading provider of financing and expertise. These sectors include road
transport, energy, urban infrastructure, rural infrastructure,
education, and financial services. Group Il comprises sectors

29

MaAIAYSAO
ADNOdPOLICY
OVERVIEW

for which building ADB capacity is not a priority but which
are identified as important for ADB to be able to meet
the diversity of needs across different countries. Group
Il includes agriculture and natural resources, railways,
health, trade (related to regional cooperation and integration), law and the judiciary, public finance, and economic
management. Group III covers sectors with limited demand
and where ADB's performance has sometimes been poor.
Operations in group-lll sectors are to be gradually phased
out, thereby freeing up resources for focusing operations
in group-! and -Il sectors. Three of ADB’s most poorly
performing sectors (fisheries, livestock, and development
finance institutions) are in group Ill. Group III also includes
some sectors where ADB has had success (airports, water
transport, and communications, for example), but demand
from developing member countries for ADB financing in
these sectors is likely to be limited.

This selective approach has been working well so far.
For public sector loans and ADF grants, 73% of total
approvals in 2006 were for group |, 17% for group Il, and
4% for group Ill.

ADB realigned its regional departments to remove
structural constraints identified during the independent
assessment of the 2002 reorganization. These adjustments
were aimed to ensure greater synergy between country
and regional operations by regrouping countries more
in line with existing regional and subregional initiatives,
strengthen country focus as a result of more balanced
workload across regional departments, and optimize

   

ed

The Water Financing Program (2006-2010) seeks to make water a core
investment area for ADB

30

the use of staff resources and skills through operational
synergy and focus by regrouping countries with congruent
development challenges and priorities.

INNOVATION AND EFFICIENCY
INITIATIVE

Another important adjustment to the operational model is
the introduction of new products and processes to enable
ADB to more flexibly and innovatively meet the needs of
developing member countries and improve real development outcomes on the ground. Greater efficiency in this
regard is required to reduce transaction costs that developing member countries incur by doing business with ADB,
including measures to accelerate loan processing. Many
plans are already under way as part of the innovation and
efficiency initiative.

Launched in November 2003, the initiative focused on
the following priority areas: cost sharing and eligibility of
expenditures, procurement and consulting services, business processes, country strategies, safeguard policies, and
new financing instruments and modalities. These initiatives
are now being implemented.

Cost Sharing and Eligibility of Expenditures. On 25
August 2005, the Board approved a new policy framework
on cost sharing, expenditure eligibility, and local cost
financing for public sector assistance. In the past, costsharing limits were fixed up-front and equally for all projects
based on the developing member country’s classification. The
new policy harmonizes ADB's approaches and practices with
those of other development institutions, including the World
Bank. In March 2006, new staff instructions and operations
manual sections were issued to provide detailed guidance on
the implementation of the new policy.

Under the new policy, cost-sharing ceilings and financing parameters for each developing member country will
normally be established in conjunction with the country
partnership strategy. Occasionally, the ceilings and parameters may be reviewed and redefined on a stand-alone
basis. In both cases, they will be approved by Management
and submitted to the Board for information. Until a country cost-sharing ceiling under the new policy is agreed for
a specific developing member country, the old project
cost-sharing ceiling applicable to the member country will
constitute the country cost-sharing ceiling.

Pilot Financing Instruments and Modalities. On 25
August 2005, the Board approved the 3-year pilot-testingof three new financing instruments and modalities: the
multitranche financing facility, the nonsovereign public sector
financing facility, and the refinancing facility. The innovation
and efficiency initiative pilot financing instruments and
modalities do not replace ADB's existing instruments, but
rather expand the range of alternatives available in ADB's
portfolio of development finance solutions. They are intended
to provide ADB clients and operational teams with additional
and flexible alternatives to help finance individual projects
and investment programs.

Multitranche Financing Facility. The multitranche financing facility allows ADB to offer financial resources to clients
for an agreed investment program or a set of interrelated
investments. These resources may be provided in a series of
separate financing tranches over a fixed period. Of the various pilot financing modalities, the multitranche financing
facility is the most in demand among clients. From August
2005 to December 2006, 10 multitranche financing facility
proposals were submitted to and approved by the Board.
Financing made available through this facility amounted to
$5.3 billion. As of 31 December 2006, two loans amounting to $360 million had been declared effective.

Nonsovereign Public Sector Financing Facility. The
nonsovereign public sector financing facility allows ADB
to provide loans and guarantees directly to selected
nonsovereign public sector entities, without need for a
central government or sovereign guarantee. In the first
year since the facility was adopted as a pilot instrument,
the Private Sector Operations Department has processed
two nonsovereign public sector financing facilities: the
National Thermal Power Corporation Capacity Expansion
Financing Facility in India and the South Sumatra to West
Java Phase II Gas Pipeline Project in Indonesia. In both
cases, the clients were state-owned enterprises. Staff
instructions and guidance notes for nonsovereign public
sector financing facilities were issued on 15 December
2006. They reiterate the policy directive that these
facilities should be processed in accordance with private
sector operations procedures.

Refinancing Facility. Using the refinancing facility,
ADB can restructure the existing debt of public, private,
or public-private clients who are burdened by a legacy of
inappropriate or onerous financing plans. No refinancing transaction has yet been processed and no concept
paper for a refinancing transaction has been cleared.
There is potential demand for this type of facility, but
two factors continue to affect its uptake: skills mix and
ability to restructure financing plans, and tight conditions and criteria for its use. As with nonsovereign public

sector financing facilities, refinancing facilities are to be
processed in accordance with private sector operations
procedures.

As a precondition for the pilot instruments, the independent Risk Management Unit was created in 2005
to evaluate nonsovereign finance transactions. The unit
became fully operational in 2006 with respect to credit
risk assessment on individual transactions of nonsovereign
operations, provision and reserve measurement, credit
portfolio management on nonsovereign operations, and
market and treasury risk management. The unit reviewed
two policies in cooperation with other departments: the
oss provisioning policy for nonsovereign operations (jointly
with the Controller's Department) and ADB’s investment
strategy and authority (with the Treasury Department).
Completing the risk framework for nonsovereign operaions will continue in 2007.

ADB also reviewed and revised its major financial and
iquidity policies in 2006 to update and align the financial
policies and practices with ADB's business activities and
initiatives and to harmonize with best practices. ADB formalized a comprehensive asset and liability management
policy framework for managing the financial assets and
iability and updated the liquidity policy and investment
authority and guidelines.

Procurement and Consulting Services. On 1 January
2005, streamlined procedures became effective for the
procurement of goods and services and the engagement
of consultants. In February 2006, the Board approved
additional amendments to ADB procurement and

 

consulting services policies, which further streamlined
he procedures, improved project implementation per
 

ormance, and responded to borrowers’ demands for
more flexibility and modernization in procurement and
consultant engagement. The revised policies became
effective on 1 April 2006.

Country Strategies and Business Processes. In August
2006, Management approved new business processes
to improve the preparation of country strategies and
programs as well as project processing of sovereign

The innovation and efficiency
initiative pilot financing
instruments and modalities
expand the range of alternatives
available in ADB’s portfolio of
development finance solutions

31

MaAIAYSAO
ADNOdPOLICY
OVERVIEW

operations. The improvements will make ADB programming and processing more responsive, relevant, and results
oriented by ensuring strategic clarity at the country level
and selectivity in operations pipelines, results orientation
and operational quality at entry, and procedural efficiency
and improvement.

The Strategy and Policy Department, in close consultation with operations and non-operations departments,
prepared the operations manual section on country
partnership strategy and the detailed country partnership
strategy guidelines, which Management finalized and
approved in February 2007. The department and the
Office of the Secretary prepared templates on the country
partnership strategy, partnership strategy midterm review
report, and country operations business plan. The entire
set of documents was discussed at a workshop conducted
on 6-7 November 2006 with staff concerned, including
those from resident missions.

Safeguard Policy Update. ADB's review of its safeguard
policies continued. These policies—on the environment
(2002), indigenous peoples (1998), and involuntary
resettlement (1995)—aim to avoid, minimize, mitigate,
and/or compensate for any adverse environmental impacts,
social costs to project-affected people, or marginalization of vulnerable groups that might result from project
interventions supported by ADB. The ongoing review
takes into account two special evaluation studies by the
Operations Evaluation Department on the environment
and involuntary resettlement. ADB also held consultations
with representatives of nongovernment, civil society, and
indigenous peoples’ organizations. The review is expected
to be completed in 2008.

PORTFOLIO PERFORMANCE
AND DEVELOPMENT RESULTS

Another adjustment in the operational model under the
second medium-term strategy relates to the enhanced
emphasis on project implementation and_ portfolio
performance in the framework of ADB’s institutional
results agenda. In assessing the effectiveness of development efforts, attention is increasingly focused on country
outcomes, and particularly progress toward the Millennium
Development Goals. Consequently, the development
effectiveness of the strategy will depend on mainstreaming the results agenda in ADB.

Managing for Development Results. ADB continues to
make progress in implementing its managing for develop
32

ment results agenda at the country and institutional levels
and through global partnerships. This is in line with its revised
action plan for managing for development results for 20062008, approved by Management in August 2006.

ADB approved 13 technical assistance projects to help
build capacity in managing for development results in its
developing member countries. Some of the projects are
funded through the agenda’s cooperation fund. A community of practice on managing for development results
was launched in March 2006 to help build capacity in
developing member countries.

At the institutional level, ADB has adopted a resultsbased country strategy and program for 11 countries.
Strategic planning processes, including the work program
and budget framework, the annual report on the poverty
reduction strategy, and other policy documents, are now
more results oriented. ADB has introduced a curriculum for
managing for development results to promote staff learning
and development at all levels. Vice presidents now convene
regular development effectiveness meetings with department heads to focus on performance and outcomes.

ADB has been active in the global partnership in managing for development results. ADB still chairs the Multilateral
Development Bank Working Group on Managing for
Development Results and co-chairs the Organisation for
Economic Co-operation and Development—Development
Assistance Committee Joint Venture on Managing
for Development Results. ADB conceived and initiated the

   

ADB's safeguard policies help avoid marginalization of vulnerable
groupsfirst Multilateral Development Bank Common Performance
Assessment System Report and worked with many development
partners in sharing knowledge and experience in this area.

Strengthening Project Performance Management
Systems. ADB’s enhanced project performance
management system helps manage projects for greater
development results. It outlines a systematic way of
designing and implementing projects. The design and
monitoring framework, the key element of the project
performance management system, is a results-based tool
for analyzing, conceptualizing, designing, implementing,
monitoring, and evaluating projects. It structures the
project-planning process and helps communicate
essential information about the project to stakeholders
in an efficient, easy-to-read format. The design and
monitoring framework can be applied to the analysis
and planning of country programs, and sector strategies,
programs, and projects.

Operations manual sections on project performance
management systems were issued in January 2006
and Guidelines on Preparing a Design and Monitoring
Framework was published in March. These guidelines
‘ocus on applying the design and monitoring framework
at the program, project, and technical assistance levels.
The guidelines are being translated into Afghanistan’s
Dari language, Mandarin (Chinese), Russian, and Vietnamese. Capacity building for officials of developing
member countries, executing agencies, and ADB staff
ocused on the participatory process in designing a
project, stakeholder analysis, problem and objectives
analyses, results chains, and analysis of alternatives.
The results of the participatory process are summarized
and presented in a results matrix format in the design
and monitoring framework. Workshops and _ training
programs were conducted for ADB staff and for oficials in 13 developing member countries: Fiji Islands,
ndonesia, Kazakhstan, Kyrgyz Republic, Lao People’s
Democratic Republic, Mongolia, Nepal, Papua New
Guinea, Philippines, Sri Lanka, Tajikistan, Uzbekistan, and
Viet Nam. In all, 325 officials from developing member
countries and executing agencies, 56 consultants, and
376 ADB staff were trained.

 

ADB's enhanced project
performance management
system helps manage projects for
greater development results

Improving Portfolio Performance and Results. The
Operations Evaluation Department presented its Annual
Report on Loan and Technical Assistance Portfolio
Performance for 2005 in September 2006. The main
recommendation arising from the analyses is to see that
the action plan to improve loan and technical assistance
portfolio performance is fully implemented. The action
plan was prepared by Management in 2005 in response
to the previous year’s report. Seven action plan items were
flagged for importance and are being acted upon. These
are a closer alignment of staff and budget allocations with
specified output deliverables in the work program and
budget framework for 2006-2008, provision of career
incentives and development for staff involved in project
implementation and portfolio management, improvement
in the strategic application of technical assistance
resources, more accurate costing of actions to complete
project preparatory work, revision of project and technical
assistance performance report formats to improve efficacy
and efficiency, review of the private sector development
strategy and private sector operations, and full functioning
of the Risk Management Unit.

Assessing Project Quality. The Operations Evaluation
Department analyzed successful projects in the group-l
sectors identified in the second medium-term strategy as
hose where ADB's operations are expected to grow—
irrigation and water management, power, water supply and
sanitation, education, and roads. Project success rates in
hese sectors have ranged from 55% to 90%. The analyses
ound that common factors across sectors contribute to
good project performance: strong ownership by governments and executing agencies; continuity of ADB’s involvement; an ability to learn lessons and incorporate them into
project design; careful project preparation; strong executing
agencies that operate in the right policy environment, are
autonomous, and have the necessary human resources,
echnical skills, and access to adequate financing for project
implementation and for operation and maintenance;
an ability to identify and solve problems during project
implementation; a clear unmet demand for the goods and
services provided by the project; use of a participatory approach and involvement of stakeholders and beneficiaries
in all project phases; successful institutional impacts; and
good performance by consultants and contractors.

 

Improving Country Strategies. Experience in 2005
through early 2006 suggests that the influence of country
assistance program evaluations in formulating new country

33

MaAIAYSAO
ADNOdPOLICY
OVERVIEW

   

partnership strategies has been mainstreamed. The Board
does not normally discuss a country strategy and program
until after the Development Effectiveness Committee has
considered the corresponding country assistance program
evaluation and informed the full Board of the committee’s
views based on the findings.

All country strategies and programs discussed by the
Board in 2005 and 2006 were reviewed to assess whether
the respective country assistance program evaluations had
influenced them. In most instances, the corresponding
country assistance program evaluation recommendations
were used as inputs.

The lessons from the review of the country strategies
and programs discussed by the Board in 2005 fall broadly
into 10 areas:
¢ Future assistance should be prioritized based on selec
tivity and focus, with successful ADB performance in a

sector as one key criterion.

* Country strategies and programs should be results
based—the lack of monitorable indicators made it
difficult to evaluate past strategies and programs.

* Success has been greatest when ADB maintains a
long-term involvement in a sector and combines programs of capacity building with investment support.

* Projects and programs using relatively simple designs
that are rooted in local conditions are more likely to
succeed than complex interventions.

* Steps must be taken to strengthen the impact of the
technical assistance used to support policy reform,
capacity building, and institutional strengthening.

* ADB should deepen its relationships with broader

34

ADB's enhanced project performance management system helps manage projects for greater development results

society as this enhances ownership and often helps
achieve better development results.

¢ ADB should intensify its coordination with development partners and stakeholders.

* Governance, including the need to control corruption,
should be explicitly addressed in country strategies
and programs, and not just as a crosscutting theme.

¢ The understanding of corruption and the risks that it
has for ADB operations remains superficial in country
strategies and programs.

¢ Failure of project designs to recognize and address
institutional weaknesses in implementing agencies
early on leads to weak project performance.

Promoting Quality at Entry. An interdepartmental panel
reported on quality at entry of ADB projects and country
strategies approved during 2004-2005. For projects, the
panel said that improvements to overall project quality at
entry will occur if particular attention is paid to implementation arrangements, fiduciary matters, risk, and policy
and institutional aspects. Regarding country strategies,
it noted that thematic country diagnostics are usually
comprehensive but that they tend to be descriptive rather
than analytical. Sector diagnostics tend to be inadequate
or missing. A common problem is that diagnostic work
is insufficiently distilled to identify a set of constraints on
development, which should provide the focus of ADB’s
operations.

In 2007, the Operations Evaluation Department will
conduct a special evaluation study on the effectiveness of
ADB's loan-processing system by documenting the expe-rience and insights of ADB mission leaders and officials
of developing member countries. The study will identify
issues that impinge on the effectiveness of ADB's loanprocessing system, evaluate the system’s effectiveness in
screening projects and facilitating incorporation of lessons
into new operations, and recommend improvements. It
may also explain why the average number of months from
fact finding to Board approval has remained constant, at
about 24 months, despite the introduction of revised business processes in 2001 (Table 1).

COOPERATION FUNDS

ADB continued to manage several Special Funds in 2006:
the Asian Development Fund; Technical Assistance Special
Fund; Japan Special Fund, including the Asian Currency Crisis
Support Facility; ADB Institute Special Fund; Asian Tsunami
Fund; and Pakistan Earthquake Fund.
In addition, ADB also managed and administered
the Japan Scholarship Program, Japan Fund for Poverty
Reduction, Japan Fund for Information and Communication
Technology, and channel financing arrangements of a
number of cooperation funds provided by bilateral donors
to support technical assistance and soft components of
loans. The cooperation funds supplement ADB's regular
resources and help it respond more effectively to the needs
of its developing member countries.
ADB administered 34 funds financed by its member
countries, of which 20 were single-donor funds and 14
multi-donor thematic funds. The thematic funds supplement ADB funding in priority thematic areas, such

 

TABLE 1 Average Processing Time
Average Number of Months from Fact Finding
to Board Approval

 

 

Sovereign Private Sector

Year Loan Projects Operations? Grants
1998 21 a =
1999) 26 14 eS
2000 26 es =
2001 24 10 =
2002 25 a =
2003 27 6 a
2004 23) 6 =
2005 23 12

2006 22) 8 12

 

— = data not applicable.
a Concept clearance date is used where the fact-finding date is not available

as poverty reduction, governance, gender, HIV/AIDS,
natural disasters, and others. The 34 funds include the
Asian tsunami and Pakistan earthquake special funds,
established in 2005 as Special Funds with ADB as the
initial sole contributor but with the possibility for other
donors to join. Subsequently, external donors joined these
funds, agreeing to ADB's administration of their respective
contributions.

Four single-donor trust funds were established in
2006. The Republic of Korea contributed $20 million
to the e-Asia and Knowledge Partnership Fund. The
ADB-Australia South Asia Development Partnership Facility
was set up with an initial Australian contribution of $8.5
million equivalent. Luxembourg made an initial commitment of $1.8 million to the Financial Sector Development
Partnership Fund. Denmark contributed $3.6 million
equivalent to the Second Cooperation Fund for Renewable
Energy and Energy Efficiency in Rural Areas.

In addition, ADB approved the Water Financing
Partnership Facility, which will accept resources from
bilateral, multilateral, and corporate sources to boost
ADB's water financing program in its developing member countries. Such resources may be provided through
project-specific loans, grants, guarantees, or other forms
of assistance. In response to the need for significant
investments needed in the water sector and recommendations made by the independent panel that reviewed the
implementation of ADB's water policy, ADB announced,
at the fourth World Water Forum in March 2006, the
Water Financing Program 2006-2010. The program seeks
to make water a core investment area for ADB. Under the
program, ADB proposes to double its water investments
to over $2 billion annually, combined with reforms and
capacity building.

Some existing funds were replenished during the
year. Spain contributed $30.0 million equivalent to the
multi-donor Asia Pacific Carbon Fund. Finland provided
the equivalent of $5.5 million to the Pakistan Earthquake
Fund and Norway contributed to the fund through a
swap-to-development modality by converting $20.0 million equivalent in outstanding loan repayment obligations
into a grant to be administered by ADB. Ireland joined
ADB and the Governance Cooperation Fund in 2006,
contributing $1.0 million equivalent to the fund. It also
contributed $1.0 million to the Gender and Development
Cooperation Fund. The Canadian Cooperation Fund on
Climate Change was replenished with the equivalent of
about $200,000.

35

MaAIAYSAO
ADNOdFINANCING
OPERATIONS

FINANCIAL RESOURCES

Authorized and subscribed capital stock amounted to $53.2 billion as of
31 December 2006. ADB raised funds totaling $5.6 billion, of which $1.0 billion was raised through a global public offering as of 31 December 2006.

Gross income, which includes revenue and net realized gains, amounted
to $1.9 billion, $1.2 billion of which was generated from the loan portfolio,
$573.1 million from the investment portfolio, and $136.4 million from other
sources, of which $105.0 million came from equity investment operations.

ADB's Special Funds are the Asian Development Fund (ADF) with 2006
committed resources amounting to $1.3 billion, Technical Assistance
Special Fund with $89.4 million, Japan Special Fund with $35.2 million,
ADB Institute Special Fund with $11.3 million, Asian Tsunami Fund with
$15.3 million, and Pakistan Earthquake Fund with $28.5 million.

FUNDING

About 73% of cumulative lending is from ordinary capital resources (OCR).
Funding from the OCR comes from three distinct sources: private placements
and capital markets in the form of borrowing; paid-in capital provided by
shareholders; and accumulated retained income (reserves), which provides
a buffer for risks.

The main instruments for providing help to ADB’s developing member
countries are policy dialogues, loans, equity investments, guarantees, grants,
and technical assistance.

ADB offers a range of modalities and terms for loans aimed at improving
performance.

Loans are also provided from Special Funds. The ADF offers loans on concessional terms to members with low per capita gross national product and
weak debt-repayment capacity. It is the only multilateral development bank
concessional fund dedicated exclusively to economic and social development
in the Asia and Pacific region. The ADF is financed by periodic voluntary
contributions from donors. The current and eighth replenishment of the ADF
(ADF IX) program is $7 billion for 1 January 2005-31 December 2008. ADF IX
grants are helping countries reduce the debt burden of development finance,

37:

SNOILVuadO
ONIDNVNIAFINANCING
OPERATIONS

make the transition from conflict to peace and stability, and
combat HIV/AIDS and other infectious diseases.

ADB also manages and administers Special Funds (see
pages 29-30) and grants provided by bilateral and multilateral
donors to support technical assistance and soft components
of loans. In recent years, thematic trust funds were established focusing on gender and development, governance,
poverty reduction, water, energy, and the environment.

Technical assistance funded through grants or loans
helps maximize ADB’s development impact. Technical
assistance grants are used for preparing projects, and for
supporting advisory and regional activities in areas such
as law and policy reform, strengthening fiscal policies
and procedures, good governance, capacity building, and
natural resources management.

ADB has a triple-A credit rating and actively mobilizes
financial resources through its cofinancing operations,
tapping official, commercial, and export credit sources.
Assistance to its developing member countries creates
an enabling environment for private sector development.
ADB also directly finances private sector projects to assist
commercial investors and lenders.

OVERVIEW OF OPERATIONS

ADB approved 80 loans (67 projects) for $7.4 billion,
14 equity investments for $260.5 million, 3 guarantees for
$124.8 million, 5 syndication operations for $530.0 million,
43 grant projects for $538.4 million, 260 technical assistance
projects for $241.6 million, and 8 multitranche financing
facilities for $3.8 billion.

TABLE 2 Top Recipients by Approval, 2006

LOANS

Sovereign lending $6.8 billion in
71 loans (59 projects and programs), comprising 26 loans from ADB's OCR for $5.5 billion, and
45 loans from the ADF for $1.3 billion. These amounts include six OCR loans for $930.8 million and three ADF loans
for $30.0 million from the multitranche financing facilities. Overall, sovereign lending increased by 30% over the
$5.2 billion approved in 2005 (an increase of 43% for OCR
lending and decrease of 6% for ADF lending). Two nonsovereign public sector loans to state-owned enterprises for
$150.0 million were approved. Seven nonsovereign loans
(six projects) to the private sector for $425.0 million were
also approved—17% less than the $513.0 million that
went to six loans (six projects) in 2005.

Of the 67 projects and programs approved, 18 (27%)
were targeted interventions, and 49 (73%) were general
interventions. Sustainable economic growth was the most
prevalent theme and was associated with 57 projects. Finance
received the largest share of lending (24%) (Table 3).

The 52 projects approved will result in total invest-ments
of about $17.5 billion: $4.3 billion (25%) will be financed
by ADB; $4.9 billion (28%) by governments and borrowers;
$8.2 billion (47%) by cofinanciers, equity sponsors, and local
financial institutions; and $22.3 million (0.1%) by project
beneficiaries. Four projects, amounting to $314.2 million,
will be financed under sector lending, compared with eight
projects amounting to $1.0 billion in 2005.

The 15 policy-based programs approved in 2006 were
valued at $3.2 billion, compared with 10 programs for

amounted to

 

 

 

($ million)
Loans
Recipient Sovereign Nonsovereign TA Grants Total

China, People’s Rep. of 1,522.00 50.00 13.58 1,585.58
Pakistan 1,535.80 7.60 34.50 1,577.90
India 1,260.00 275.00 SOE 5.00 1,570.57
Indonesia 709.80 75.00 7.05 36.56 828.41
Philippines 650.00 465 440 659.05
Viet Nam 308.19 16.52 32.49 357.21
Bangladesh 255.10 aul 56.70 317251
Afghanistan 113.20 40.00 195 151.20 312.35
Nepal 86.00 6.38 84.90 177.28
Kazakhstan 125.00 0.60 125.60
Regional 102.24 25.00 127.24
Other DMCs 381.20 10.00 BO 107.65 537.62
Total 6,821.29 575.00 241.63 538.40 8,176.32

 

DMC = developing member country, TA = technical assistance.
Note: Totals may not add up because of rounding.

38$1.1 billion in 2005. Four program loans approved were

coupled with an investment project loan.

EQUITY OPERATIONS

Fourteen equity investments for $260.5 million were approved, compared with eight for $196.5 million in 2005.

TABLE 3 Operations by Sector, 2005-2006

COFINANCING AND

GUARANTEE OPERATIONS

Total direct value-added cofinancing amounted to
$1.5 billion for 103 projects, of which $1.4 billion was for
29 investment projects and $92.7 million was for 74 technical assistance projects. Direct value-added cofinancing

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Loans Grants
2005 2006 2005 2006

Sector $ million % $ million % $ million % $ million %
Agriculture and Natural Resources 301.21 5 807.17 1 67.28 6 133.60 25
Education 58.06 i 250.90 3 34.57 3 46.66 3
Energy 1,073.80 i) 1,369.50 19 28.50 3.00 A
Finance 261.22 5 1,787.00 24 2.00 0.2 72.05 13
Health, Nutrition, and Social Protection 57.90 1 - - 92.18 71.99 13
Industry and Trade 25.00 0.4 10.00 0.1 2.70 0.2 0.50 0.1
Law, Economic Management, and Public Policy 778.00 14 220.00 3 8.30 8.30 2
Transport and Communications 1,722.80 30 1,433.20 19 70.80 6 131.40 24
Water Supply, Sanitation, and Waste Management 618.00 11 638.82 9 28.00 2 1.00 0.2
Multisector 864.62 15 879.70 12 815.60 71 69.90 13
Total 5,760.61 100 7,396.29 100 1,149.93 100 538.40 100
—=no data available.
Note: Totals may not add up because of rounding.
TABLE 4a Direct Value-Added Cofinancing Arrangements, 2003-2006
($ million)

2003 2004 2005 2006

 

Sovereign Nonsovereign Total

Sovereign Nonsovereign Total

Sovereign Nonsovereign Total Sovereign Nonsovereign Total

 

Investment Projects

 

 

 

Guarantees 65.0 105.0 170.0 0.0 10.0 10.0 18.4 50.0 68.4 0.0 124.8 124.8
Syndications 0.0 70.0 70.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 530.0 530.0
Grants 404.0 0.0 404.0 68.2 0.0 68.2 223.4 0.0 223.4 166.1 0.0 166.1
Official Loans 77.0 0.0 77.0 142.0 0.0 142.0 30.5 0.0 30.5 569.2 0.0 569.2
Subtotal 546.0 175.0 721.0 210.2 10.0 220.2 272.3 50.0 322.3 735.3 654.8 1,390.1
Technical Assistance Projects
Grants 67.9 0.0 67.9 75.2 0.0 75.2 78.9 0.0 78.9 92.7 0.0 92.7
Total DVA Cofinancing 613.9 175.0 788.9 285.4 10.0 295.4 351.2 50.0 401.2 828.1 654.8 1,482.9
DVA = direct value added.
TABLE 4b Direct Value-Added Cofinancing Arrangements, 2003-2006
(number of projects*)
2003 2004 2005 2006

 

Sovereign Nonsovereign Total Sovereign Nonsovereign Total Sovereign Nonsovereign Total

Sovereign Nonsovereign Total

 

Investment Projects

 

Guarantees 1 1 2 0 1 1 1 1 2 0 3 3)
Syndications 0 1 1 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 iB 5)
Grants 2 0 2 6 0 6 12 0 2 12 0 12
Official Loans 3 0 3 hi 0 7 a 0 3 a 0 11
Subtotal 6 iz 8 13 1 14 1S 1 16 22 a 29
Technical Assistance Projects
Grants 87 0 87 96 0 96 95) 0 95 74 0 74
Total 93 2 95 109 1 110 110 1 111 96 7 103

 

DVA = direct value added.

a A project with more than one source of cofinancing is counted as one.

39

SNOILVuadO
ONIDNVNIAFINANCING
OPERATIONS

Table 5 Top Recipients of Grants by Approval,* 2006

 

 

 

Country $ million
Afghanistan 151
Nepal 85
Bangladesh 57
Indonesia 37
Pakistan 34
Viet Nam 32
Solomon Islands 25
Lao PDR ae,
Papua New Guinea 22
Sri Lanka 17
Other DMCs 31
Regional 25
Total 538

 

DMC = developing member country.
a. Includes cofinanced grants.

Table 6 Top Recipients of Technical Assistance
by Approval, 2006

 

 

 

($ million)
Country TASF JSF Others Total %
India 6.00 2.30 22.27 30.57 12.7
Viet Nam 4.03 4.00 8.49 16.52 68
China, People’s

Rep. of 12.66 = 0.93 13.58 5.6
Afghanistan 6.95 = 1.00 7.95 33
Pakistan 2.20 5.40 a 7.60 3
Indonesia S27 1.48 0.30 7.05 29)
Nepal 1.30 2.45 2.63 6.38 2.6
Cambodia 1.80 3.15 1.30 6.25 2.6
Bangladesh 2.00 3.45 0.26 Si 24
Philippines 2255 1.60 0.50 4.65 129)
Other DMCs 1227 13073; ee 3312) 13.7
Regional 35.27 19.03 47.95 102.24 42.3
Total 92.30 56.59 92.74 241.63 100.0

 

DMC = developing member country, JSF = Japan Special Fund, TASF = Technical
Assistance Special Fund
Note: Totals may not add up because of rounding.

Table 7 Resource Transfers to
Developing Member Countries

 

 

 

($ million)
2005 2006
OCR
Loan Disbursements 3,498 4,420
Principal Repayments? (3,491) (1,736)
Payments of Interest/Charges (1,041) (1,185)
Net Equity Investment 47 (14)
Net (987) 1,486
ADF
Loan Disbursements 1,247 1,338
Principal Repayments (434) (468)
Payments of Interest/Charges (201) (204)
Net 612 666
Total (375) 2,152

 

() = resource inflow from developing member countries, ADF = Asian Development
Fund, OCR = ordinary capital resources.
a_ Includes prepayments of $460.3 million ($597.4 million in 2005).

40

for investment projects comprised $124.8 million for
3 guarantee operations, $530.0 million for 5 syndication
operations, $166.1 million for 12 grant operations, and
$569.2 million for 11 official loan cofinancing operations
(Tables 4a and 4b). Nondirect value-added cofinancing
amounted to about $4.5 billion in the form of parallel grants and loans for 20 ADB-financed projects and
programs.

GRANTS

ADB approved 43 grant projects for $538.4 million in
2006 (Table 5). Of this amount, $274.9 million was
funded from the ADF IX; $28.5 million from the Asian
Tsunami Fund and Pakistan Earthquake Fund; and $235.0
million from external sources with full or partial administration by ADB, comprising $67.9 million from the Japan
Fund for Poverty Reduction, $1.0 million from the Japan
Fund for Information and Communication Technology,
and $166.1 million from other bilateral and multilateral
sources (Australia, Canada, Finland, Republic of Korea,
the Netherlands, New Zealand, Norway, Sweden,
Switzerland, and United Kingdom).

Of the 43 grant projects, sustainable economic growth
was the most prevalent theme and was associated with
25 projects. Agriculture and natural resources received the
largest share among the sectors (25%) (Table 3).

In addition, parallel grants of $111.9 million were provided from multilateral and bilateral institutions without ADB
administration services for five ADB-financed projects.

TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE

ADB approved a total of 260 technical assistance projects
for $241.6 million, including 234 new projects and 26
supplementary projects. This amount is 21.7% more than
the $198.5 million for the 299 projects approved in 2005.
Of the 260 technical assistance projects, 73 were for
project preparation, 98 were advisory, and 89 were for
regional assistance. Of the total amount approved, $92.3
million was financed from the Technical Assistance Special
Fund, $56.6 million from the Japan Special Fund, and
the remaining $92.7 million from other multilateral and
bilateral sources (Table 6).

MULTITRANCHE FINANCING
FACILITIES

Eight multitranche financing facilities totaling $3.8 billion
were approved in 2006, compared with two for $1.5billion in 2005 (see The Record). These were one facility
($430.0 million) for Bangladesh, three ($1.1 billion) for
India, three ($2.2 billion) for Pakistan, and one ($50.0
million) for the People’s Republic of China (PRC).

RESOURCE TRANSFERS

The year showed significant improvement in disbursement, compared with the past 10 years. In discussions
with borrowers, countries highlighted the need for ADB
to expand support for poverty reduction programs. The
Board discussed a range of new financial mechanisms and
business procedure reforms under the innovation and efficiency initiative to respond to client demands.

Compared with the net inflow of $0.4 billion to ADB
from its developing member countries in 2005, there was
a net transfer of resources of $2.2 billion from ADB to its
developing member countries. There was a net transfer
of $1.5 billion from ADB to OCR borrowers/investors. The
four countries with largest net resource transfers were the
PRC, Pakistan, Philippines, and India.

Loan disbursements totaled $5.7 billion compared
with $4.7 billion in 2005. Of the total, OCR disbursements
were $4.4 billion or 77% and ADF disbursements were
$1.3 billion or 23% (Table 7).

Loan service payments reached $3.6 billion in 2006,
compared with $5.2 billion in 2005. The decrease was
mainly because of the bullet repayment of the financial
sector program loan to the Republic of Korea of $1.7 billion in 2005.

NONSOVEREIGN OPERATIONS

ADB approved a total of 21 financial markets and infrastructure nonsovereign projects providing $1.4 billion
in assistance in 2006 (Table 9). The interventions are
composed of 14 equity investments of $260.5 million,

Table 9 Nonsovereign Operations, 2003-2006°

7 private sector loans of $425.0 million, of which $75.0
million has been reinsured, 2 public sector loans of $150.0
million, two partial credit guarantees of $109.8 million, a
political risk guarantee of $15.0 million, and $455.0 million
in commercial loans under ADB's B-loan program (Table 9), of
which $105.0 million is for B-loans for private sector projects
and $350.0 million is for B-loans for public sector projects.

As of 31 December 2006, the overall exposure of
nonsovereign operations amounted to about $2.6 billion,
consisting of $915 million in equity investments, loans of
$1.3 billion, and guarantees of $401 million. ADB’s nonsovereign exposure is largest in the infrastructure sector
with a total of $1.2 billion in exposure, followed by exposure to the financial sector of $822 million, investment
funds and capital markets of $446 million, and exposure
to other sectors at $110 million.

The exposure of nonsovereign operations is the largest in the PRC (21%), followed by Indonesia (14%), India
(13%), and Kazakhstan (9%). Regional projects account
for roughly 10% of the total.

Table 8 Cumulative Nonsovereign Operations
by Top Countries, 1983-2006°

 

 

($ million)

India 1,026
China, People’s Rep. of 766
Indonesia 729
Pakistan 505
Philippines 448
Thailand Big)
Viet Nam 255
Bangladesh 242
Sri Lanka 232
Kazakhstan 225
Other DMCs 330
Regional 830
Total 5,906

 

DMC = developing member country
a_ Net of full cancellations before effectivity

 

 

 

 

($ million)

2003 2004 2005 2006
Loan 167 93 ols BLD,
Equity 36 164 197 261
Partial Credit Guarantee 170 = 18 110
Political Risk Guarantee = 10 50 15
B-loan 170 = a 455
Total Approvals 543 267 778 1,415
Total Project Cost 2,300 2,228 8,776 8,586

 

— = nil, Boan = an ADB loan funded by third parties without recourse to ADB (see Glossary, page 122).

a Net of full cancellations before effectivity.

Al

SNOILVuadO
ONIDNVNIAy

: ay PE eRe oee
ARAL EU EEE OS aT
; : : 7

P at
~

hy 9s

, a — a ode. . +e eee.
Se 4 ty
: ‘ es

~~? ms

4 aOPERATIONS
OVERVIEW

For the second year running, ADB scaled up its assistance to its developing
member countries. It also continued to increase its development effectiveness through internal reform initiatives and external efforts to harmonize
strategies, programs, and procedures with other multilateral development
banks and bilateral donors. ADB's operations reflected the priorities of
its second medium-term strategy: catalyzing investment, strengthening
inclusiveness, promoting regional cooperation and integration, managing
the environment, and improving governance and preventing corruption.

CATALYZING INVESTMENT

Financing infrastructure development in the Asia and Pacific region poses
a challenge that can only be met by involving the private sector. ADB
provides funds, makes equity investments, and catalyzes financing from
other sources to support infrastructure development.

ADB's nonsovereign operations supported the infrastructure, capital
market, and banking sectors, among others. ADB approved 21 nonsovereign projects (projects without sovereign guarantee), totaling $1.4 billion
in assistance, an 81.9% increase over the $777.9 million approved in
2005. The projects were in the form of traditional direct lending amounting to $575.0 million, equity investments of $260.5 million, a political
risk guarantee of $15.0 million, two partial credit guarantees amounting
to $109.8 million, and commercial cofinancing through B-loans totaling
$455.0 million.

For the first time, ADB supported private sector projects in the Central
Asian republics of Azerbaijan and Kazakhstan. It also approved its first
nonsovereign public sector loans: $75 million to increase power generation capacity in India and $75 million to transport gas from South Sumatra
to West Java in Indonesia. For the India loan, ADB leveraged three times
its own loan ($75 million from ADB's own resources and $225 million
to be underwritten and syndicated from international commercial banks
through the B-loan), showing ADB’s commitment to crowd in private lenders. The loan will help fund two projects in Chhattisgarh and Bihar states,

43

MAIAYSAO
SNOILV4AdOOPERATIONS
OVERVIEW

which will add 4,480 megawatts of electricity to India’s
national grid in 2006-2009. The Bihar project mobilized
an additional $125 million from commercial banks as well
as Kreditanstalt fur Wiederaufbau (KfW) and the Islamic
Development Bank.

ADB's private sector portfolio has improved significantly. As of the end of the year, the impaired portfolio
had been reduced to 4% of the total private sector outstanding portfolio, compared with 9% in 2005. With a
fully functioning independent risk management group
rigorously screening nonsovereign projects at point of
entry, the quality of the private sector portfolio is expected
to improve further. Impaired projects are being monitored
closely by a work-out team and continue to be sold or
disposed of.

A $400 million program loan to Pakistan will establish
a comprehensive framework to address key policy,
regulatory, and institutional constraints on private sector
investment in the power, transport, and water sectors and
eventually help mobilize private sector resources for them.

ADB focused on encouraging public—private partnerships and private investment through projects in
railways (Cambodia, $42.0 million);
reform (Indonesia, $426.5 million); forest plantation
development (Lao People’s Democratic Republic, $10.0
million); financial market regulation and intermediation
(Philippines, $200.0 million); and power sector development (Philippines, $450.0 million), among others.

infrastructure

ADB invested substantially in rural finance projects in India

44

ADB focuses particularly
on investments to support
rural development

STRENGTHENING INCLUSIVENESS

The second medium-term strategy emphasizes strengthening inclusive patterns of growth and social development
to enable disadvantaged groups to benefit equitably from
the opportunities that development provides. The strategy
focuses particularly on investments to support rural development—as the vast majority of the poor remain in rural
areas—as well as investments in key social development
interventions.

ADB substantially in projects that supported rural road construction (India, Papua New Guinea,
People’s Republic of China [PRC]); rural water supply
systems (Sri Lanka); irrigation (Pakistan); rural finance
(India); and rural electrification (PRC). About a quarter
of approved loans cited inclusive social development as a
theme. ADB strengthened inclusiveness through projects
to develop education (Bangladesh, Indonesia, Lao People’s
Democratic Republic [Lao PDR], Mongolia, Nepal, and Viet
Nam); improve the environment (India); reduce poverty
(Viet Nam); and support sustainable livelihoods through
livestock development (Lao PDR).

investedSafe water, sanitation, and responsible environmental management are
all ADB priorities

REGIONAL COOPERATION
AND INTEGRATION

In cooperation with governments in the region, ADB drew
up its first regional cooperation strategy and program for
South Asia (2006-2008). The ADB-supported South Asia
Subregional Economic Cooperation Program took a major
step in developing four investment projects for information and communications technology, tourism, transport,
and trade. ADB also supported studies and cooperation
activities of the South Asian Association for Regional
Cooperation and the Bay of Bengal Initiative for MultiSectoral Technical and Economic Cooperation in transport
and energy.

The Central Asia Regional Economic Cooperation program took a major step forward in October 2006 when
ministers endorsed its comprehensive action plan. The

ADB's private sector portfolio has
improved significantly. As of the end
of the year, the impaired portfolio
had been reduced to 4% of the

total private sector outstanding
portfolio, compared with 9% in 2005

plan presents a detailed forward-looking framework for
cooperation among the eight participating countries of the
region and includes a pipeline of 42 projects in 2006-2008
with anticipated financing of more than $2.3 billion from
the program’s six multilateral partners.

ADB endorsed a new regional cooperation strategy and
program update and subsequently approved 2 loans and
11 technical assistance projects for the Greater Mekong
Subregion (GMS). ADB supported studies and cooperation
programs in transport, trade facilitation, energy, agriculture, and environmental management.

In East Asia, ADB is facilitating a number of cooperation initiatives between the PRC and Mongolia.

In the Pacific, ADB continued to help eight of its
members establish the multi-country Pacific Aviation
Safety Office. The project is financed through a public
sector regional loan to an intergovernmental organization,
supported by guarantees of its member countries.

In the Pacific, ADB recognizes that with the endorsement of the Pacific Plan by 16 Forum island countries
in October 2005, the time is ripe to promote regional
cooperation. The Pacific Plan is an evolving document
which presents initiatives supporting the achievement
of four strategic goals—economic growth, sustainable
development, good governance, and security. ADB has
directly supported implementation of the Pacific Plan in
2006 through approval of two regional technical assistance projects to strengthen regional cooperation among
Pacific developing member countries, and governance and
financial management in these countries.

In 2006, 42.3% of ADB's technical assistance—$102.2
million—supported regional initiatives.

MANAGING THE ENVIRONMENT

To ensure compliance with its safeguard policies, ADB reviewed all projects before Board consideration. In a review
of 81 projects and equity investments approved in 2006,
ADB found that 55 projects required the preparation of
environmental assessment reports and management
system frameworks, 20 required the preparation of a plan
or framework or specific actions for indigenous peoples,
and 35 required resettlement plans and frameworks—to
address potential adverse impacts on the environment and
affected people. ADB issued revised operational procedures
for each of the three safeguard policy areas, taking into
account the new disclosure requirements of the recently
approved public communications policy. ADB organized
orientation and training for its own staff and developing

45

MalAYAAO
SNOILVuAdOOPERATIONS
OVERVIEW

member country officials on safeguard requirements. It
also enhanced knowledge capture and dissemination
through regular updates of its websites on the environment, involuntary resettlement and indigenous peoples,
and safeguards.

ADB continued to enhance legal frameworks and capacity development related to involuntary resettlement in
Bangladesh, Cambodia, Nepal, and Sri Lanka. As a continuing commitment to global dialogue on indigenous peoples’
issues, ADB participated in the Fifth Session of the United
Nations Permanent Forum on Indigenous Issues, which highlighted the need to redefine the Millennium Development
Goals to include indigenous peoples’ concerns.

Of the 67 projects approved in 2006 (excluding equity
investments), 17 (25%) had environmental sustainability as a
theme—up from 10 (16%) in 2005. Total ADB assistance for
the 17 projects amounted to $1.6 billion (22% of total ADB
funds), twice the $794 million (14%) committed in 2005.

Nearly half of ADB funds (44%) approved aimed to
improve urban environments by providing or rehabilitating
water supply, sanitation, and waste management systems.
More than 30% of ADB funds supported cleaner producion processes and controlled industrial pollution. Other
projects helped conserve natural resources.

Several approved technical assistance projects aimed
‘o strengthen capacity, start policy reforms, make project
implementation more effective, and help achieve the
Millennium Development Goals, among others. For
example, ADB will help the Government of the PRC estabish the Clean Development Mechanism Fund by designing
a governance structure and building its initial operational
capacity. ADB is financing a study to help Bangladesh,
Bhutan, India, and Nepal improve and develop policy and
regulations for managing hazardous wastes.

ADB is working in partnership with other institutions.
The Global Environment Facility provided $9 million in
cofinancing for a coastal resources management project
in the Philippines and a commitment of $20 million in
grant support for the first phase of the ADB-led Central
Asian Countries Initiative for Land Management.

The Asian Environmental Compliance and Enforcement Network, established by ADB and the United

 

 

Nearly half of technical assistance
aimed to provide or rehabilitate
water supply, sanitation, and
waste management systems

46

States Agency for International Development on the
premise that sustainable development depends on
good governance, supported pilot activities, including
regional training and consultation to develop national
environmental compliance and enforcement indicators
in the Philippines, Thailand, and Viet Nam. During the
network's first annual forum held in Ha Noi, Viet Nam,
participants discussed general principles for compliance
and enforcement tailored to Asia, and lessons from
country case studies.

The Clean Air Initiative for Asian Cities progressed well,
with rapid expansion of country-level air quality analysis
and investment planning. The Better Air Quality Conference
held in Yogyakarta, Indonesia, highlighted the success of
Asian countries, cities, and communities in reducing air
pollution, and efforts needed to improve air quality.

The Poverty and Environment Program continued to
accelerate learning on the link between environment
and poverty, and effective approaches for poverty reduction. ADB's Poverty and Environment Net website—a
repository of successful poverty and environment strategies, programs, and projects—has become a much
sought-after knowledge management tool inside and
outside the region.

IMPROVING GOVERNANCE
AND PREVENTING CORRUPTION

ADB is committed to working with its client countries to
improve governance and reduce vulnerability to corruption, which is key to reducing poverty.

Eighteen of 67 approved public and private sector loan
projects and 85 technical assistance projects had improving
governance as a theme. Assistance to strengthen governance in developing member countries totaled $2.7 billion,
including technical assistance to improve public auditing
capacity in Pacific island member countries and to help
develop the Afghanistan National Development Strategy
(including support to develop a national anticorruption
strategy); preparation of a governance reform and decentralization cluster program in Nepal; and a program cluster
to support the Development Policy Support Program of
Indonesia, which, among other things, will strengthen the
public financial management and anticorruption framework
and improve the delivery of public services.

ADB's five regional departments have begun to implement the second governance and anticorruption action plan.
Preparations have begun to apply this action plan to five new
country partnership strategies scheduled for completion in- rE “

2007. Initial assessments of governance, institutional, and
corruption risks have been completed for projects and programs with a high perceived exposure to governance issues.
One such assessment, for example, was for a rural cooperative credit restructuring and development program in India.
ADB approved the revised Guidelines on the Use of
Consultants and Procurement Guidelines in 2006. They
are now substantially harmonized with those of the InterAmerican Development Bank and the World Bank, and
streamline ADB's procurement processes, enhance their
transparency, and allow greater flexibility in procurement
for experienced executing agencies. The guidelines include a
provision for declaring misprocurement when agreed procedures are not followed, and contain harmonized definitions
of corrupt, fraudulent, coercive, and collusive practices.
Ensuring adequate project implementation capacity
is the responsibility of ADB's borrowers and requires a
commitment to provide resources, develop skills, and put
in place the necessary systems and procedures. ADB has
introduced a number of measures for borrowers to assess

Involving stakeholders strengthens their support for, and reduces challenges to, ADB-assisted activities

 

and improve their procurement capacity. These measures
include executing agency capacity assessment, training to
develop a project procurement plan, and improvement of
executing agency staff's skills in project implementation
through seminars and customized training programs. An
important role of executing agency capacity assessment is
to evaluate the project risks that may hinder the ability of
an executing agency to carry out effective, efficient, and
transparent procurement. Assessments will feed into plans
to develop institutional capacity to mitigate such risks, and
a procurement plan commensurate with the capacity of
each executing agency. ADB introduced capacity assessment with executing agencies and procurement plans,
and will expand activities in 2007.

ADB's NGO Center approved small grants amounting
to $150,000 to nonprofit, nongovernment groups in
Mongolia, Pakistan, and the Philippines to pilot-test and
demonstrate the relevance and impact of nongovernment
mechanisms and approaches to improving transparency
and accountability and fighting corruption.

47

MAIAYAAO

SNOILVuadOCENTRAL AND
WEST ASIA

Afghanistan, Armenia, Azerbaijan, Kazakhstan,
Kyrgyz Republic, Pakistan, Tajikistan,
Turkmenistan, Uzbekistan

ADB's Central and West Asia Department was established on 1 May 2006.
It includes members from the Caucasus, Central Asia, and two countries
from the previous South Asia Department.

These countries lie at the heart of an increasingly integrated Eurasian
continent. Surrounded by opportunity, the area is growing rapidly. Its
countries are also examining how best to work together to turn potential
into shared and sustainable economic prosperity.

The area's strong economic growth comes amid efforts to develop the
private sector, further the transition toward a market system, and deal
with conflict. A large percentage of the population in many countries also
continues to live on less than $2 a day.

ADB assistance supports actions to encourage productive economic activity, provide and promote public goods and services, and facilitate private
sector development. ADB finance covers financial market development,
energy security, connectivity, urban services improvement, and agriculture
productivity.

ADB approved 23 loans for Central and West Asia totaling $1.9 billion,
an increase of 57% from the annual average of $1.2 billion during
2001-2005. Total lending to the subregion comprised $1.6 billion from
ADB's ordinary capital resources (OCR), and $274.8 million in Asian
Development Fund (ADF) loans (Table 12). ADF grants in 2006 totaled
$106.5 million. In addition, 43 technical assistance grants totaling more
than $33.0 million and 7 projects financed from the Japan Fund for
Poverty Reduction totaling $49.5 million were approved in 2006.

Of the assistance, 80% went to Pakistan, for which 13 loans totaling $1.5 billion were approved. Two public sector investments and one

49

1SamM
\WYLNaD

 
  

visv

anv 1nonsovereign loan totaling $153.2 million were approved
for Afghanistan. Two loans totaling $125.0 million were
approved for Kazakhstan, two loans totaling $27.0 million for Tajikistan, two loans totaling $60.2 million for
Uzbekistan, and one loan amounting to $10.0 million for
Azerbaijan.

Lending to Pakistan included seven blended loans (OCR
and ADF) under multitranche financing facilities. These
transactions accounted for $758.8 million in lending in
2006 and involved total anticipated lending of $3.0 billion
in the coming years. Cumulative lending for the region
amounted to $20.1 billion (Table 11).

In line with the priorities set out in the second mediumterm strategy and the regional cooperation and integration
strategy, the Central and West Asia Department continued
its active support for the Central Asia Regional Economic
Cooperation Program, an alliance of eight countries and
six multilateral institutions that promotes cooperation and
integration in transport, energy, and trade. The program
adopted a comprehensive action plan, marking a transition
to a results-oriented program with tangible targets and
outputs, based on strong country ownership, pragmatic
approaches, and mutual accountability.

One regional project was approved during the year. The
$56.5 million Regional Power Transmission Interconnection
Project will tap Tajikistan’s power surplus to meet serious
shortfalls in neighboring Afghanistan. The project will
construct a 220-kilovolt double-circuit transmission line

Contract awards topped $1.2 billion and disbursements reached

$1.0 billion in 2006, both up
substantially from 2005

TOP 5 ACHIEVEMENTS IN 2006

Established the Central and West Asia Department and
developed strategic directions

Continued to increase the department's contract awards and
(eSNG)

Focused poli cLoMIcIALOl OTe aM ers] cISitclaMO ams 1A C016] e-(0)1NT0 OE 1Cc
sector participation in infrastructure development and improving
access to finance

Po} O cose R(t ONIN OSU S MINEO ANNAN OKs MUA TIM OK Ne}
power from Tajikistan to Afghanistan

Adopted the Central Asia Regional Economic Cooperation
Comprehensive Action Plan

 

linking the hydropower stations on Tajikistan’s Vakhsh
River to Kunduz and, ultimately, to Kabul, Afghanistan.
The total net economic benefits from the project are estimated at $114.0 million, split fairly evenly between the
two countries.

Portfolio Management

Contract awards topped $1.2 billion and disbursements
reached $1.0 billion in 2006, both up substantially from
2005. Program loan tranche releases to Pakistan in the
last quarter contributed to this performance. Pakistan accounts for 85% of the department's total contract awards
and 79% of disbursements (Table 10). The department
took a number of initiatives to improve project supervision
and portfolio management, including a special review of
the portfolio, establishment of a project administration
unit network, and the initiation of regular portfolio review
meetings at the division and department levels.

TABLE 10 Central and West Asia: Portfolio Performance Indicators for Sovereign Lending, 2005-2006

 

 

 

 

No. of Contract Awards/Commitments Disbursements Loans at Risk

Ongoing Loans 2006 2005 2006 2005 2006 2005
Country (as of Dec 2006) ($ million) ($ million) ($ million) ($ million) (%) (%)
Atghanistan 11 44.35 97.73 67.15 2a9F a es
Azerbaijan eh 20.74 1.38 4.08 0.50 40.0 40.0
Kazakhstan 4 = a 242 26.06 8S 25.0
Kyrgyz Republic 10 36.88 20.05 42.82 30.40 10.0 18.2
Pakistan 80 1,048.41 734.14 F019: 563.51 12.5 57
Tajikistan 12 28.28 43.73 Sooty, 26.07 8.3 =
Uzbekistan 17 49.26 90.03 5931 91.69 11.8 a
Total 139 1,227.91 987.05 1,001.14 762.14 12.2 7.1

 

 

== nil.
Note: Totals may not add up because of rounding.

50COUNTRY HIGHLIGHTS

AFGHANISTAN

Despite impressive economic growth, Afghanistan remains
one of the poorest countries in the Asia and Pacific region.
Ongoing security problems and capacity constraints impede
progress, including the implementation of donor-supported
projects and programs.

ADB assistance has focused on building capacity, helping
establish policy and institutional frameworks, and rehabilitating essential infrastructure. Donor coordination is critical,
and ADB actively contributes in this area as a member of
the Afghanistan Compact Joint Coordination Monitoring
Board as well as to the management committees for both
the Afghanistan Reconstruction Trust Fund and the Counter
Narcotics Trust Fund. ADB is also the lead donor agency for
the energy and road sectors.

ADB provided $213.2 million in ADF loans and grants,
and $8.0 million in technical assistance grants. The approval of two Japan Fund for Poverty Reduction grants
totaling $38.0 million complemented ADB’s overall program of assistance.

Public sector approvals included a $118.2 million project
($78.2 million ADF loan and $40.0 million ADF grant) in
support of the North-South Corridor, a road project that
will rehabilitate 140.3 km of the Mazar-e-Sharif—Dara-i-Suf
road and 98.9 km of the Bamian-Yakawlang road. A $20.0
million Japan Fund for Poverty Reduction project will support
the construction of a link road to Bamiyan.

 

 

L

The second medium-term strategy identifies infrastructure as a core
operational sector

   

TABLE 11 Central and West Asia: Cumulative
Lending and Disbursements by Country

 

 

 

as of the end of 2006

($ million)?

Country Lending Disbursements
Afghanistan 892.28 367.26
Azerbaijan 114.00 8.58
Kazakhstan 626.60 560.00.
Kyrgyz Republic 588.50 495.23
Pakistan 16,571.04 11,320.88
Tajikistan 300.84 134.75
Uzbekistan 974.90 433.61
Total 20,068.16 13,320.31

 

a Loan component of regional projects distributed to the countries.

FIGURE 1 Central and West Asia:
ADB Lending by Country, 2005-2006
(Sovereign and Nonsovereign)

 

($ million)
121.8
Afghanistan pa
52.00
seston fl 20 is
42
0.00
Kazakhstan
125.0
15.50 : &
kj Republi .
yrgye Republic | 9 oo o
Pakistan cao 3
1,535.80
an 29.50
Tajikistan | 57 00
: 55.00
Uzbekistan 60.20
0 400 800 1,200 1,600
2005 Mi 2006

FIGURE 2 Central and West Asia:
ADB Disbursements by Country, 2005-2006
(Sovereign and Nonsovereign)
($ million)
Afghanistan
Azerbaijan

Kazakhstan

Kyrgyz Republic

 

Pakistan Doe
Tajikistan
Uzbekistan
0 200 400 600 800
2005 lm 2006

51CENTRAL AND
WEST ASIA

A$60 million ADF grant for the Private Sector and Financial
Market Development Program will encourage private sector
activity and improve access to financial services.

A $35 million ADF loan will support the Afghanistan
component of the Regional Power Transmission Interconnection Project to connect the Afghanistan and Tajikistan
power grids.

A $40 million nonsovereign loan and guarantee of
up to $15 million will help accelerate the expansion of
Afghanistan’s leading cellular network. The investment
builds upon ADB's 2004 investment of $35 million in
Roshan, a telecommunications company owned by the
Aga Khan Fund for Economic Development (see story,
page 55). Roshan’s cellular network was the first private
sector project to attract international commercial bank
financing to Afghanistan for some 30 years, made
possible through ADB’s B-loan program and _ political

 

risk guarantee product. As a result of additional financing, Roshan was able to provide service to more than
1 million Afghan subscribers.

Since resuming operations in Afghanistan in 2002, ADB
has approved more than $1 billion in assistance to the country. This has been complemented by $126.2 million in donor
cofinancing, largely through the Japan Fund for Poverty
Reduction. ADB has pledged up to $200.0 million a year over
2006-2010.

Because of lack of capacity and procurement delays,
overall implementation progress has been slower than

Since resuming operations in
Afghanistan in 2002, ADB has
approved more than $1 billion
in assistance to the country

TABLE 12 Central and West Asia: Sovereign and Nonsovereign Loan Approvals by Country, 2006

 

 

 

 

 

 

($ million)
Total Date
Country OCR ADF Total Project Cost* Approved
SOVEREIGN
Afghanistan
North-South Corridor - 78.20 78.20 140.90 26 Sep
Regional Power Transmission Interconnection (Afghanistan) - 35.00 35.00 55.50 19 Dec
Pakistan
Mega City Development = 10.00 10.00 13.33 2 Feb
Rural Enterprise Modernization - 5.00 5.00 6.50 7 Feb
National Highway Development Sector Investment Program (Subproject 1) 180.00 al 180.00 220.30 15 Feb
Federally Administered Tribal Areas Rural Development - 42.00 42.00 60.40 25 Apr
Private Participation in Infrastructure Program (Subprogram 1) 400.00 = 400.00 400.00 31 Oct
Renewable Energy Development Sector Investment Program (Subproject 1) 105.00 10.00 115.00 145.00 13 Dec
Power Transmission Enhancement Investment Program (Subproject 1) 226.00 10.00 236.00 294.50 13 Dec
Improving Access to Financial Services (Phase 1) Program 300.00 20.00 320.00 320.00 14 Dec
Punjab Irrigated Agriculture Investment Program 217.80 10.00 227.80 281.38 18 Dec
Tajikistan
Sustainable Cotton Subsector a 5.50 5.50 15.29 3 Nov
Regional Power Transmission Interconnection (Tajikistan) - 21.50 21.50 54.00 19 Dec
Uzbekistan
Land Improvement 32.60 27.60 60.20 76.18 24 Jul
Subtotal 1,461.40 274.80 1,736.20 2,083.28
NONSOVEREIGN
Afghanistan
Roshan Phase || Expansion 40.00 = 40.00 210.20 29 Jun
Azerbaijan
Private Banks and Leasing Companies in Azerbaijan 10.00 a 10.00 15.00 30 Mar
Kazakhstan
JSC Alliance Bank 50.00 z 50.00 50.00 15 Jun
Bank TuranAlem JSC 75.00 co 75.00 75.00 15 Jun
Subtotal 175.00 a 175.00 350.20
Total 1,636.40 274.80 1,911.20 2,433.48

 

— = nil, ADF = Asian Development Fund, OCR = ordinary capital resources.
a Total project cost includes financing by ADB, governments, borrowers, beneficiaries,
equity sponsors; and local participating private companies and financial institutions.

52

and subborrowers; cofinancing from official, export credit, and commercial sources;targeted. Some 228 km (51%) of the 450 km of the
northern link road (from Pul-e-Khumri to Andkhoy)
have been completed. A project to rehabilitate 241 km
of 220-kilovolt double-circuit transmission lines will be
completed by mid-2007. ADB has helped develop policy
and institutional reforms related to fiscal management,
restructuring of state-owned enterprises, public administration, and the country’s statistical system, as well
as road sector and energy master plans. ADB, together
with other donors, will help the Government prepare a
national anticorruption strategy.

ARMENIA

Armenia joined ADB in September 2005. On 1 August
2006, the Board of Directors endorsed an economic
report and interim operational strategy for 2006-2009.
ADB's strategic priorities are to accelerate rural and urban
development, promote the private sector, and enhance
regional cooperation. Continued progress in macroeconomic, fiscal, and debt management reaffirmed the
Government's commitment to reform. ADB is developing
an assistance program for 2007-2009 in consultation with
the Government.

ADB will focus initially on rehabilitating rural roads, water
supply, and social infrastructure.

A rural roads rehabilitation project preparatory technical
assistance for $150,000 was approved.

AZERBAUJAN

In March 2006, ADB approved its first nonsovereign loan
and equity investment to Azerbaijan, totaling $15 million.
This will strengthen the emerging private banking sector.
The financial assistance will improve regulation, growth
of the small- and micro-loan portfolio, and support the
implementation of professional banking practices by three
local private banks—Micro Finance Bank of Azerbaijan,
Azerigazbank, and Bank Respublika. ADB approved $8
million to help facilitate trade. ADB has three ongoing loan
projects in Azerbaijan totaling $104 million. The disbursement of these loans has been slow on account of lack of
familiarity with ADB procedures. ADB also supported the
Government's campaign against avian influenza.

Rich oil and gas resources are expected to continue to be major
sources of export revenue. The Government significantly expanded
its investment program to develop infrastructure and the non-oil
economy. ADB's strategy in the country focuses on promoting
sustainable and inclusive growth through rehabilitation of roads,
and improvement of water and sanitation, good governance,
private sector development, and regional cooperation.

KAZAKHSTAN

 

ADB approved two private sector loans totaling $125 million. In line with Government priorities, ADB's assistance
focuses on private sector activity.

 

Azerbaijan significantly increased investment in infrastructure and the non-oil economy

53

Visv LSIM
GNV 1VY¥LN3DADB is helping rehabilitate the regional road network in the Kyrgyz
Republic

ADB approved two 5-year loans to two commercial
banks—$75 million to Bank TuranAlem JSC and $50 million
to JSC Alliance Bank—representing ADB's first nonsovereign financing in Kazakhstan. They will help the two banks
expand their small and medium-sized enterprise portfolio
by providing debt funding and bridging an unwarranted
maturity gap, allowing the banks to match their assets and
liabilities more closely.

A partial credit guarantee was provided to JSC Alliance
Bank for its first diversified payment rights securitization
program with a total issue amount of $200 million. This
will help develop Kazakhstan's securitization market. The
project is the first diversified payment rights securitization
of a medium-sized private sector bank in Kazakhstan.
It is expected to help similar banks access this type of
funding.

Ongoing public sector technical assistance and investments support the Government as it strives to achieve
environmentally sustainable development, wider access
to drinking water, improved water supply and sanitation
services, long-term benefits from higher farm income, and
improved irrigation networks and water service institutions.

ADB approved two private
sector loans totaling $125
million in Kazakhstan

54

KYRGYZ REPUBLIC

As of 31 December, the country had received 25 loans
and 4 grants (including 3 from the Japan Fund for Poverty
Reduction) for project financing, totaling $607 million
equivalent. All loans were provided on concessional terms
from the ADF. ADB also provided 65 technical assistance
projects amounting to about $38 million. The transport and
communications sector received the largest share of ADB
assistance, and focused on rehabilitating key sections of the
national road network and strengthening sector management and finance.

The Kyrgyz Republic was selected as a pilot country
during the February 2003 Rome conference on harmonization. Much progress has been made among key
donors in coordinating and harmonizing procurement
procedures, financial management and monitoring, and
sharing project implementation units. ADB has conducted
country portfolio reviews jointly with other international
financial institutions since 2003. A results-based joint
country support strategy for 2007-2010 is being prepared
with the United Kingdom's Department for International
Development, Swiss Agency for Development Cooperation,
United Nations, and World Bank.

PAKISTAN

ADB's large and diverse portfolio consists of 80 loans
totaling $6.4 billion. ADB approved $1.5 billion in 2006.
Six loans were approved under the multitranche financing
facility that provides long-term support in transport and
communications, energy security, and irrigation services.
In addition, ADB also provided $180 million to modernize the national highway network under a $770 million
multitranche financing facility approved in 2005. A renewable energy sector development program, through a
$510 million multitranche financing facility, will fund new
investments in small to medium-sized hydropower units
that will help realize Pakistan’s significant hydropower
potential. A power transmission enhancement project
under an $800 million multitranche financing facility
aims to ensure reliable and high-quality power supply
to an ever-increasing number of industrial, commercial,
and retail consumers. The Punjab Irrigated Agriculture
Investment Program, representing the first of a series of
investments under a multitranche financing facility of
$900 million, will rehabilitate the canal system reducing water losses and improving irrigation efficiency and
agricultural productivity.Supporting Economic
Reconstruction:
Afghanistan's Cellular
Phone Net work

After more than 25 years of conflict, Afghanistan was
left with no national fixed-line telecommunications
service, a barely functioning postal service, and poor
roads. Cellular networks, while growing fast, are basic,
limited, and require over $300 million in investments to
extend their coverage beyond major cities.

In mountainous and landlocked Afghanistan,
cellular telephony is the only way to provide reliable,
countrywide communications. National demand
for this service will continue to increase rapidly but
limited funds constrain its development.

ADB is helping improve telecommunications
through a $120 million assistance package that
includes separate $35 million and $40 million
nonsovereign loans, a political risk guarantee of up
to $15 million, and a B-loan of up to $30 million that
leverages funds from other sources. ADB funding

for the program and its political risk cover have
encouraged commercial lenders to join the program,
a first for Afghanistan in several years. ADB's presence
encourages international aid agencies and commercial
lenders to support private sector development.

This assistance will help the Roshan Cellular Phone
Network, Afghanistan’s leading network provider,
upgrade its systems and services and expand its
coverage.

The cellular network project will use global systems
for mobile communication, cellular, satellite, and radio
wave transmission technologies. The new funding
will help Roshan—a private limited liability company
providing cellular telephone, international gateway,
and Internet services—expand coverage countrywide,
pilot a mobile banking service, and deploy public call
offices that provide access to communications for
less-affluent users.

ADB's presence encourages
international aid agencies and
commercial lenders to support
private sector development

 

55

VISV LSAM
GNV 1VY¥LN3DCENTRAL AND
WEST ASIA

paws Se

   

ADB supports a program to establish policy, legal, and regulatory frameworks and support reforms in Pakistan

A $400 million program loan was approved to promote
private sector participation in infrastructure development.
The program will establish policy, legal, and regulatory
frameworks and support reforms in priority sectors such
as power, transport (highways), and water to make them
attractive for financing by the private sector.

A flagship program in the financial sector, approved for
$320 million, focuses on improving access to microfinance
and other financial services.

ADB also approved $7.6 million in grant financing for
technical assistance projects, including $2.0 million to help
the Government develop a national strategy to support its
Access to Financial Services Program.

TAJIKISTAN

ADB approved a $5.5 million loan and a $6.5 million ADF
grant for a sustainable cotton development project to help
restore the cotton subsector, the country’s main source of
farm income, agriculture exports, and rural employment.
The project will target four major cotton-growing districts
and use a two-tiered strategy to resolve cotton farm debt
on a pilot basis and to develop the cotton market. ADB
also supports the Government's farm debt resolution
strategy.

ADB assistance to the power sector continued, with a
$21.5 million loan for the Regional Power Transmission

56

A flagship program in Pakistan's
financial sector, approved

for $320 million, focuses on
improving access to microfinance
and other financial services

Interconnection Project for Afghanistan and Tajikistan
(including a $35.0 million loan to Afghanistan). The loan
will finance the construction of a 220-kilovolt doublecircuit transmission line from the Sangtuda Hydropower
Plant to Shekabandar, and rehabilitation of the Khatlon
Power System. ADB is cooperating with other development partners to support a larger regional proposal for the
Central Asia-South Asia Transmission Line Project, which
will export power from Tajikistan to Pakistan.

TURKMENISTAN

ADB maintains a liaison office in Ashgabat to facilitate
dialogue with the Government. No active operations took
place in Turkmenistan in 2006. Turkmenistan is involved
in two regional technical assistance programs covering the sharing of environmental information and land
management. Consultations continued on the proposed
Turkmenistan—Afghanistan—Pakistan pipeline.UZBEKISTAN

ADB's $60.2 million Land Improvement Project, approved
in July 2006, will address the degradation of about 162,000
hectares of irrigated land in nine districts in Bukhara,
Kashkadarya, and Navoi provinces, where crop yields have
declined by 30% since 1991, directly affecting about 1.4
million people. The project will improve land reclamation
practices and establish three farms to demonstrate innovative farm technologies and enhanced agronomic practices.
It will also rehabilitate drainage and irrigation systems to
improve water control and efficiency. A technical assistance
grant for $800,000, cofinanced by the Poverty Reduction
Cooperation Fund of the Government of the United
Kingdom, accompanies the loan and will help strengthen
institutions and prepare legislation.

In March 2006, ADB approved a $1.5 million Japan
Fund for Poverty Reduction grant to pilot a project that

 

at td

A a NG ea a
ADB continues to assist the power sector in Tajikistan

will improve basic education for children with special
needs to increase their learning, social confidence, and
social integration.

ADB also approved a 5-year country strategy and
program focusing on four strategic priorities: accelerating rural development, building human capital through
basic education and early childhood development,
promoting regional trade and transport, and enhancing
private sector activities.

ADB approved a 5-year country
strategy and program focusing on
accelerating rural development,
building human capital, promoting
regional trade and transport, and
enhancing private sector activities

   

57EAST ASIA

People’s Republic of China, Mongolia

In East Asia, the thematic priorities of ADB’s program are to diversify operations to promote inclusiveness and improve the environment; meet client
needs and expectations for quality knowledge products through new ideas
and approaches and their better dissemination; actively participate in the
Central Asia Regional Economic Cooperation and Greater Mekong Subregion
(GMS) programs, and expand cooperation to regional public goods and other
new initiatives in line with ADB's new regional cooperation and integration
strategy; and explore opportunities to catalyze funds and add value through
private-public partnership operations and private sector transactions. ADB
aims to continue the diversification of its People’s Republic of China (PRC)
program beyond transport to agriculture and natural resources management, urban development and environmental management, and energy
conservation. ADB's Mongolia program is exploring assistance to address
urgent problems in natural resources management, and promote private sector development including through expanding or replicating successful pilot
projects financed by the Japan Fund for Poverty Reduction and other bilateral
sources. Regional cooperation with neighboring countries—particularly the
PRC—is receiving greater attention to leverage the significant investments
Mongolia is making to develop its regional road network.

A multitranche financing facility is being pilot-tested in the PRC energy
sector, and new approaches for energy conservation are being developed. ADB's public sector operations are exploring avenues to promote
private-public partnerships as in the Nanjing Qinhuai River Environmental
Improvement Project in the PRC and introduce new approaches and innovative instruments.

ADB approved 13 sovereign loans amounting to $1.6 billion for the PRC
and Mongolia (Table 13, Figure 3). The program included a multitranche
financing facility project for the PRC’s Gansu Heihe Rural Hydropower
Development Investment Program for $50.0 million. The first tranche of
this facility is $22.0 million. In Mongolia, a customs modernization project is cofinanced with $0.5 million in grant funds from the Korea e-Asia
and Knowledge Partnership Fund. ADB also provided $180.0 million in
assistance to the private sector in the PRC including equity investments
and B-loans. The nonlending program for the two countries included
31 technical assistance projects (including 2 supplementary technical
assistance approvals) for $16.0 million. Of these, 15 ($8.7 million) were
for project preparation and 16 were for advisory technical assistance

 

59

visv LSv4EAST ASIA

($7.3 million). One Japan Fund for Poverty Reduction
project for $1.0 million was processed for Mongolia to
impart nonformal skills training to unemployed youth and
poor adults. Cumulative lending for the region amounted
to $18.6 billion (Table 14).

ADB is pursuing a more focused approach to producing
and disseminating knowledge products by mainstreaming
knowledge management into technical assistance and loans.
The objective is to incorporate knowledge products into all
loan and technical assistance operations to add value to ADB’s
operations. This is considered essential and operationally
relevant, particularly in the PRC, which is seeking high-quality
international know-how and advice on good management
practices. ADB has set up a knowledge management unit in
its East Asia Department under senior staff supervision and is
building a knowledge network. A knowledge management
plan is being developed. ADB established a knowledge network on climate change in the PRC's Tsinghua University.

Regional Cooperation

In line with the second medium-term strategy’s priorities
and the regional cooperation and integration strategy,
active support is being provided for the PRC's participation in the GMS and Central Asia Regional Economic

TOP 5 ACHIEVEMENTS IN 2006

Launched new regional cooperation initiatives in East Asia
involving the PRC and Mo!

Mainstreamed knowledge management into loans and technical
assistance to add value to operations

Implemented innovative projects and project components,
including clean development mechanism carbon credits and a
OOM NTO Uee NCNM INCEOINO MELLIN AcINI ICO) A ONK0) [se

Promoted a coordinated sector-wide approach to primary
education in Mongolia with the Government and other donors in
an initiative that will also give significant grants for education

 

Cooperation programs, and Mongolia’s participation in
the latter, particularly in cross-border infrastructure connections and trade facilitation that cover the PRC and
Mongolia. The PRC hosted two senior officials’ meetings
and the Fifth Ministerial Conference on Central Asia
Regional Economic Cooperation in Urumai, Xinjiang Uygur
Autonomous Region. ADB provided technical support to
help the PRC organize an in-country consultation work
TABLE 13 East Asia: Sovereign and Nonsovereign Loan Approvals by Country, 2006

 

 

 

 

 

 

($ million)
Total Date
Country OcR ADF Total Project Cost? Approved
SOVEREIGN
China, People’s Rep. of
Shandong Hai River Basin Pollution Control 80.00 = 80.00 160.36 21 Jun
Guangxi Nanning Urban Environmental Upgrading 100.00 = 100.00 262.70 26 Jun
Wuhan Wastewater and Stormwater Management 100.00 a 100.00 266.40 26 Jun
Hunan Flood Management Sector 200.00 = 200.00 497.40 29 Jun
Heilongjiang Road Network Development 200.00 a 200.00 524.55 26 Jul
Inner Mongolia Autonomous Region Environment Improvement 120.00 = 120.00 330.40 29 Sep
Taiyuan-Zhongwei Railway 300.00 a 300.00 3,752.90 23 Nov
Southern Gansu Roads Development 300.00 = 300.00 1,660.00 18 Dec
Erlongshan Hydropower Project (Subproject 1) 22.00 cl 22.00 49.09 18 Dec
Nanjing Qinhuai River Environmental Improvement 100.00 = 100.00 236.10 18 Dec
Mongolia
Third Education Development a 13.00 13.00 16.38 21 Jun
Urban Sector Development ae 28.20 28.20 37.60 19 Dec
Customs Modernization a 5.00 5.00 6.76 20 Dec
Subtotal 1,522.00 46.20 1,568.20 7,800.64
NONSOVEREIGN
China, People’s Rep. of
Municipal Natural Gas Infrastructure Development 50.00 = 50.00 1,157.00 30 Aug
Subtotal 50.00 = 50.00 1,157.00
Total 1,572.00 46.20 1,618.20 8,957.64

 

— = nil, ADF = Asian Development Fund, OCR = ordinary capital resources.
a Total project cost includes financing by ADB, governments, borrowers, beneficiaries,
equity sponsors; and local participating private companies and financial institutions.

60

and subborrowers; cofinancing from official, export credit, and commercial sources;shop that brought together key decision makers from
government agencies for in-depth discussions of issues
related to regional cooperation. ADB also supported the
inaugural forum of the Beibu Regional Economic Cooperation
Program to promote regional cooperation between the PRC's
Guangxi Zhuang Autonomous Region and the Association of
Southeast Asian Nations (ASEAN) and the GMS.

ADB is facilitating a number of cooperation initiatives
between the PRC and Mongolia under a regional technical assistance project covering transport, trade facilitation, and capacity building for participation in regional
cooperation.

Another approved regional technical assistance project
on subregional cooperation in Northeast Asia focuses on
mitigating transboundary air pollution from coal-fired power
plants. The project’s major outputs will include closer environmental cooperation among countries of Northeast Asia
on transboundary air pollution, increased technical capacity
and knowledge transfer on prevention and management of
transboundary pollution, and greater capacity for management of coal-fired power plant emissions in Mongolia.

Portfolio Management

A strong focus on portfolio management continued to
yield good performance in the region. Portfolio quality
continued to be relatively satisfactory; 2 of the 65 ongoing
loans to the region were at risk (3.1%). The disbursement
performance was also good, with $1 billion disbursed.
Contract awards were $786.1 million. To improve
project administration, the role of resident missions was
strengthened through increased delegation of projects.
Six additional loans were delegated to the PRC Resident
Mission and one loan to the Mongolia Resident Mission.
To further streamline project administration, the PRC
Resident Mission assumed full disbursement functions for

A strong focus on portfolio
management continues to yield
good performance in the region

all loans it administers. Technical assistance administration improved significantly. Several technical assistance
projects were financially closed and savings realized to
augment the scarce resources.

Portfolio performance in the PRC continued to be
good with only one project (2.1% of the portfolio) at risk.
Disbursements (all for projects) totaled $984.8 million.

For Mongolia, contract awards totaled $52.5 million.
Disbursements amounted to $28.6 million (Table 15).

TABLE 14 East Asia: Cumulative Lending and
Disbursements by Country as of the end of 2006
($ million)

 

 

 

 

 

 

Country Lending Disbursements
China, People’s Rep. of 17,947.40 10,908.23
Mongolia 666.54 520.57
Total 18,613.94 11,428.80
FIGURE 3 East Asia:
ADB Lending by Country, 2005-2006
(Sovereign and Nonsovereign)
($ million)
| |
China, People's 1,499.52
Rep. of 1,572.00
10.00
Mongolia fy ne 99
0 400 800 1200 1,600
2005 §m2006
FIGURE 4 East Asia:
ADB Disbursements by Country, 2005-2006
(Sovereign and Nonsovereign)
($ million)
China, People's 894.12
Rep. of 987.97
Mongolia |, 22:92
28.59
0 200 400 600 800 1,000
2005 li 2006

TABLE 15 East Asia: Portfolio Performance Indicators for Sovereign Lending, 2005-2006

 

 

 

 

No. of Contract Awards/Commitments Disbursements Loans at Risk
Ongoing Loans 2006 2005 2006 2005 2006 2005
Country (as of Dec 2006) ($ million) ($ million) ($ million) ($ million) (%) (%)
China, People’s Rep. of 47 733.70 1,385.53 984.84 874.77 2a =
Mongolia 18 52.45 19.45 28.59 29.92 5.6 =
Total 65 786.14 1,404.98 1,013.43 904.69 3.1 =

 

 

Note: Totals may not add up because of rounding.

61

visv Lsv4EAST ASIA

COUNTRY HIGHLIGHTS

THE PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF CHINA

The new country partnership strategy (2008-2010), which
is being prepared, will align ADB’s country strategy with
the PRC's 11th Five-Year Plan and the priorities set out in
ADB's second medium-term strategy. ADB approved 10
sovereign loans to the PRC totaling about $1.5 billion and
secured $3.2 billion in nondirect value-added cofinancing.
In addition, 27 technical assistance projects (including two supplementary approvals) provided grants
amounting to $13.6 million. ADB began diversifying its
operations away from transport, which still accounted
for more than half of total lending (52.6%). Other key
sectors were water supply, sanitation and waste management (25.0%), agriculture and natural resources
(13.1%), and energy (9.3%).

Increasing Connectivity
Removing constraints on transport infrastructure remains
a high priority for the Government. Since 1989, ADB has
provided $9.8 billion for 48 transport infrastructure projects
to construct, upgrade, and improve railways, expressways,
and feeder or access roads. About $8.8 billion, or 90% of
this investment, was allocated to the poorer central and
western regions.

All three transport sector projects approved in 2006
are in less-developed regions. These include a $200 mil
lion loan (Heilongjiang Road Network Development
Project) to upgrade 428 km of the Jixi-Nehe highway
in the northeast, along with 170 km of rural link roads.
A second transport sector project for $300 million is
in southern Gansu, one of the poorest provinces. The
project will support the construction of the 134-km
Wudu-Guanzigou expressway, the upgrading of 357 km
of rural roads in the Lanzhou-Haikou corridor, and the
improvement of road transport services by constructing
200 township bus stations and pilot-testing the road
transport action plan. These two road projects help
diversify ADB assistance within the sector by supporting
provincial roads and integrating logistics services and
rural development into expressway projects.

The third transport sector project in 2006 is a
$300 million loan to finance the construction of 944 km
of railway line from Taiyuan in Shanxi to Zhongwei and
Yinchuan in Ningxia. This will be the first east-west railway
linking the provinces of Shanxi, Shaanxi, and Ningxia. The
project will link Beijing, Qingdao, and other major cities
and ports in the east with Yinchuan, Zhongwei, Lanzhou,
and Urumgi in the west on its way to Kazakhstan. The
project introduces strategic and private investors and

ADB began diversifying its
operations away from transport,
which still accounted for more
than half of total lending

 

ADB-supported railway projects give inland provinces access to ports

62helps transform railway enterprises from cost centers in
a planned economy into profit centers in an increasingly
competitive transport market.

Environmental Protection

Land degradation and air and water pollution have
caused losses of up to the equivalent of 8% of gross
domestic product (GDP) per year, and depleted natural
resources that rural residents need. ADB continues to
support the PRC in environmental protection through
lending and technical assistance. ADB directly supported environmental improvement by lending $200
million to a flood control project in Hunan province, and
$120 million to an energy conservation project in the
Inner Mongolia Autonomous Region, and providing
a $50 million multitranche financing facility for rural
hydropower projects in a remote region of western
Gansu province.

The clean development mechanism (CDM) allows
developed countries to fulfill their greenhouse gas emission
reduction obligations under the United Nations Framework
Convention on Climate Change (Kyoto Protocol) through
investments in emission reduction projects in developing
countries such as the PRC. In June 2006, ADB approved
technical assistance to help the PRC establish the CDM Fund
to manage the fees applied to the large revenue from CDM
projects. The CDM Fund will be used to support domestic
climate change-related activities. ADB introduced innovative
carbon financing to the Shandong Hai River Basin Pollution
Control Project through the CDM, which introduced additional financing from international carbon markets. The
Government proposed to pilot-test the recently approved
carbon market initiative for the ADB-assisted medium-sized
hydropower project in Gansu.

Urban Development, Environmental Management
ADB approved loans totalling $380 million for four water
supply, sanitation, and wastewater management projects.
These urban projects aim to support the Government's
effort to promote sustainable economic growth through
urbanization while protecting the environment and improving the health and well-being of urban residents. The $100
million Nanjing Qinhuai River Environmental Improvement
Project has innovative features to promote private-public
coordination in urban infrastructure management and to
catalyze alternative sources of investments with help from
ADB's technical assistance. ADB also provided assistance,
through its private sector window, to enhance the supply
of clean energy in urban areas.

 

Cleaning up the Suzhou creek: ADB supports environmental protection
and regeneration in the PRC

Private Sector Development

he domestic private sector contributes more than 40% of
GDP, 60% of economic growth, 75% of new jobs in the
organized sector, and more than half the tax revenue in
many areas. ADB supports government efforts to improve
he enabling environment for the private sector. An ADBsupported study on private sector development was submit‘ed to the Chinese People’s Political Consultative Conference
and the National People’s Congress in March 2006. ADB
provided technical assistance to formulate the supervisory
ramework for small and medium-sized enterprise credit
guarantee companies, and to improve corporate governance of companies in which ADB has invested.

In addition to policy advice and assistance in improving
he enabling environment, ADB provides project-based
inancial support, focusing on infrastructure and the
inancial sector. In December 2006, ADB invested $30 million
‘0 take a 5% minority stake in Hangzhou City Commercial Bank,
he fourth largest commercial bank in Hangzhou, a city that
hrives on private sector economic activity. City commercial
banks in the PRC play a vital role, especially in developing
small and medium-sized enterprises. However, they have
weaknesses in a number of areas, including strategic risk
management, corporate governance, credit risk manage
 

ADB helps the PRC establish the
Clean Development Mechanism
(CDM) Fund to manage the
fees applied to the large
revenue from CDM projects

63

visv 1SW4EAST ASIA

   

~ aS
ADB support has played an important role in the PRC's economic
development

 

ADB is exploring new areas in social
development, including education

ment, and inadequate capital. Through its investment,
ADB will help the bank improve its corporate governance
and internal control procedures.

ADB provided $150 million in assistance to the China Gas
Group, consisting of a $50 million direct loan, a $25 million
equity investment, and $75 million in commercial loans under
ADB's B-loan program to help construct natural gas distribution infrastructure in municipalities for supplying natural gas
to residential, industrial, and commercial customers. The
project supports the Government's efforts to promote the use
of natural gas to reduce particulates and sulfur dioxide emissions from households and small industries. This will benefit
the urban population, particularly the poor, who are exposed
to indoor and outdoor air pollution. ADB's assistance to the
project is expected to have a demonstration effect and help
catalyze support for more such projects in the PRC.

64

20 Years of ADB-PRC Partnership

The ADB-PRC partnership has grown in many ways since
the PRC became a member of ADB in March 1986. The
PRC has become the third largest shareholder of ADB,
with 6.5% of subscribed capital and 5.5% of voting
power, and an important middle-income country client.
Its cumulative borrowing reached $17.9 billion by the
end of 2006. The PRC has also received project preparatory and advisory technical assistance grants amounting
to $270.4 million.

Since 2003, ADB's lending to the PRC has focused on
four sectors: infrastructure, mainly transport and energy;
agriculture and natural resources; urban development; and
environmental protection, largely in the central and western
regions. Increased attention is being given to integrating
ADB assistance into the Government's socioeconomic
development priorities, and to promoting balanced and
sustainable development.

ADB support has played an important role in the PRC's
economic development and structural reforms. Before the
late 1990s, capital was scarce in the PRC. As the economy
boomed and reforms deepened, financing became less
of a constraint. ADB's lending and nonlending assistance
also evolved with client requirements and continues to
focus on innovative approaches in management, new
modalities in project implementation, and initiatives for
reform. ADB is becoming increasingly active in delivering
knowledge-based products in agriculture and natural
resources, energy, environment, finance, governance,
macroeconomic management, transport, and urban
development. These products provide valuable inputs for
socioeconomic reforms.

The PRC has strengthened its partnership with ADB
in new ways by contributing $30 million to the Asian
Development Fund (ADF), and establishing the $20 million
Fund for Regional Cooperation and Poverty Reduction in
ADB, becoming the first developing country to set up such
a fund with an international development agency.

The 11th Five-Year Plan period of 2006-2010 will see a
stronger ADB-PRC partnership on many new fronts. ADB is
exploring new areas in social development, including technical education and vocational training, and public health. ADB
is also looking to expand its assistance to rural development.

MONGOLIA

In October 2005, the ADB Board approved a new country
strategy and program for Mongolia that is closely aligned
with the Government's poverty reduction strategy and moreAgricultural Waste
Raises Production in
the PRC

An innovative ADB pilot project to help develop efficient
ways to use agricultural waste for sustainable rural
development in the People’s Republic of China (PRC) is
paying multiple dividends. A $6.4 million grant from
the Global Environment Facility supplemented ADB's
assistance of $33.1 million and improved the project's
sustainability.

The Efficient Utilization of Agricultural Wastes
Project, approved in 2002, is boosting farm production
and the income of poor farmers, reducing household
costs, and helping tackle the PRC's environmental and
energy challenges by using agricultural waste from
crops and animals to fuel biogas digesters and biomass
gasification plants.

More than 13,000 households in 145 villages
in Henan, Hubei, Jiangxi, and Shanxi provinces are
benefiting as operators of smallholder biogas digesters
incorporated into farming systems, or as consumers of
gas from medium-scale biogas and gasification plants.

In the project area, agricultural production has
increased between 10% and 25%, and the annual
production of biogas in the project area has reached
about 104,000 cubic meters.

"This is the best development project in 30 years
in our county,” says Huang Lingqiang, deputy
governor, Jing’an county, Jiangxi province. “Project
implementation is clear, simple, and the benefits to
farmers are sustainable.”

The project is promoting local and national awareness
of the advantages of biomass rural energy development.
It has created a high level of interest and participation in
the project area with increasing direct private investment
in biogas digesters at the farmer, technician, and digester
production levels, and greater understanding and
management capacity for further expansion and afterinstallation management by farmers and local officials.

The use of biogas for cooking and lighting is helping
improve household air quality and reduce the incidence

 

of respiratory diseases. It is reducing the time women
spend collecting firewood for cooking, and helping
regenerate forests.

Biofertilizers from biogas digesters are helping
reduce the need for chemical fertilizers that pollute the
environment.

Technical support and training are being provided
to promote and improve biomass technology
and to establish adequate service infrastructure
to ensure sustainability and the development of
biomass systems in rural areas. This project will also
provide valuable field experience to prepare effective
interventions to implement the Government's new
thrust to develop sustainable rural energy sources as
part of its rural development strategy.

“This is the best development
project in 30 years in our county.
The project implementation is clear,
simple, and the benefits

to farmers are sustainable”

 

Contractors construct biogas digesters under ADB’s Efficient
Utilization of Agricultural Wastes Project

65

visv 1SW4EAST ASIA

 

ADB helps the Government promote education in Mongolia

tightly focused on improving development impact. The
country strategy and program aims to reduce poverty by
supporting stable, broad-based growth, and socially inclusive development. It programs an indicative lending level
of $78 million from ADF resources for 2007-2009, supplemented by an additional $40 million for regional projects
from the ADF. The country strategy and program will help
the Government as it embarks on a results-based approach
to development, formulating rigorous performance indicators and establishing systems to manage the Government's
strategy for results. The strategy and program calls for
assistance in agriculture, transport, education, health,
and urban development. ADB is preparing an agribusiness
supply chain development project in Mongolia to target
niche markets for premium value products. The project
has strategic implications for livelihood improvement,
economic diversification, and environmental protection.
The ADB Board endorsed a country strategy and
program update in September 2006. While maintaining
the overall directions of the country strategy and program,
the update incorporates changes needed to support the
strategic approach that the Government has adopted to
achieve the Millennium Development Goals, increase the
effectiveness of development activities, boost governance,
improve alignment with the Government's and ADB's

66

 

priorities, and strengthen coordination with other development partners to increase the inflow of funds.

ADB's cumulative lending to Mongolia for 39 public
sector loans totaled $662.0 million. ADB provided
$4.5 million in assistance to the private sector through its
private sector window. Eighteen sovereign loans and one
nonsovereign loan were active at the end of 2006. Technical
assistance grants totaled $61.3 million, and grants from
the Japan Fund for Poverty Reduction, the Japan Fund for
Information and Communication Technology, the Republic
of Korea e-Asia and Knowledge Partnership Fund, and
Norway totaled $9.7 million.

In 2006, three new loans for education, urban development, and customs modernization totaling $46.2 million,
and four technical assistance grants of $2.5 million, were
approved. ADB also approved a $1.0 million Japan Fund
for Poverty Reduction project to develop nonformal skills
training for unemployed youth and poor adults.

The country strategy and program
aims to reduce poverty by supporting
stable, broad-based growth, and
socially inclusive developmentBetter Health for
Mongolian Villagers

ADB is helping provide thousands of rural poor with
access to improved health services.

ADB, in close partnership with the Government
and key stakeholders, has been supporting the
health sector in Mongolia since 1997. In 2003, ADB
approved a $14 million loan for the Second Health
Sector Development Project to improve rural health
services, especially for the poor and vulnerable, and
to build the capacity of the health sector through
reforms in sector efficiency, effectiveness, and
sustainability.

The project has helped improve rural health
services in five aimags (provinces) chosen because
of their high levels of poverty, infant and maternal
mortality, and infectious diseases.

More than 422,000 Mongolians—about 17% of
the population—are benefiting from the project's

rural health component, which has raised vaccination
rates to 98% among children under 5 years of age in

the project area, above the national target of 92%.
The average length of hospital stay has come down
from 10 to 8 days. Contraceptive use in the project
aimag has reached 55% among women aged 15-44,
above the national average of 43%.

The project also trains community nurses, district
doctors, district and provincial administrators,
economists of the health department, and staff
of the health insurance organization to help the
Ministry of Health build institutional capacity. The
project supports key reforms in the sector, including
strengthening primary health care through family
group practices, improving hospitals, and developing
human resources in the health sector. Twenty-three
district health centers, five interdistrict hospitals, and
four provincial center hospitals have been built or
renovated, and equipped.

More than 422,000 Mongolians—
about 17% of the population—are
benefiting from the project's

rural health component

 

   

os

ADB has helped raise health standards in five of the poorest provinces in Mongolia

67

visv 1SW4PACIFIC

Cook Islands, Fiji Islands, Kiribati, Marshall Islands,
Federated States of Micronesia, Nauru, Palau,
Papua New Guinea, Samoa, Solomon Islands,
Timor-Leste, Tonga, Tuvalu, Vanuatu

ADB provides a range of services to its 14 Pacific developing member
countries, with lending and grant operations supplemented by extensive
technical assistance, analytical work, and policy advice. ADB's key result
areas of stronger sustainable job growth, improved service delivery, and
strengthened development processes were identified in ADB's Pacific
Strategy for 2005-2009: Responding to the Priorities of the Poor.

ADB approved a supplementary loan of $53.0 million for the
Papua New Guinea Road Maintenance and Upgrading (Sector) Project
(Table 18, Figure 5). It also approved two Asian Development Fund (ADF)
grants: $15.0 million for the HIV/AIDS Prevention and Control in Rural
Development Enclaves Project in Papua New Guinea and $350,000 for
he Solomon Islands Road Improvement (Sector) Project. Cumulative
ending for the region amounted to $1.7 billion (Table 17). ADB also
raised $24.4 million in cofinancing from Australia and New Zealand
or the 2 ADF-supported projects and approved 21 technical assistance
grants of $22.9 million for the Pacific countries. Of these, 5 were for
project preparatory technical assistance at $2.6 million, 12 for advisory
echnical assistance at $8.5 million, and 4 for regional technical assistance
at $11.8 million. While the number of project preparatory and advisory
echnical assistance grants approved was lower than the annual average
of 24 in 2001-2005, the total value was $0.8 million higher.

ADB published two reports on the socioeconomic and poverty implicaions of HIV/AIDS in the Pacific. The reports concluded that, except for
Papua New Guinea, the HIV/AIDS epidemic in the Pacific generally affects
groups with high-risk behaviors. Papua New Guinea is particularly vulnerable and will require strong political commitment of the Government and
development partners to combat HIV/AIDS. ADB approved the HIV/AIDS
Prevention and Control in Rural Development Enclaves Project, which
involves the public and private sectors and major development partners in
Papua New Guinea.

 

 

69

1k1IDVdPACIFIC

Engaging the Private Sector

Throughout the Pacific, ADB has strengthened its role in
promoting private sector development. Two regional technical assistance projects are driving this approach: Improving
Delivery of Infrastructure Services, approved in 2005; and
Private Sector Development Initiative, approved in 2006.

By approving the second of these projects, ADB strengthened its long-term commitment to the region. This initiative
will be implemented in cooperation with the Government of
Australia. The $8.7 million technical assistance grant is promoting long-term economic growth by creating an enabling
environment, including greater transparency, for private
sector development in the Pacific. It is focusing on reforming
state-owned enterprises, improving access to finance, and
strengthening the business environment through legal and
regulatory reforms. ADB will conduct diagnostic studies; provide technical expertise in priority reform areas; strengthen
capacities in relevant government agencies and organizations;
support regional initiatives; and disseminate information on
good practices, reform opportunities, and results.

The Improving Delivery of Infrastructure Services Project
made progress. A regional workshop was held in Sydney,
Australia, in August 2006 for government officials and
private sector representatives from 11 Pacific countries who
are directly involved in infrastructure financing and planning. Participants discussed service delivery and efficiency,
sustainable finance, and the role of the private sector. The
workshop was a success, with outputs being used as a platform for the next phase of strategic action in the region.

Promoting Regional Cooperation and Integration
ADB supports Pacific regional cooperation and integration as
a mechanism to meet national priorities, including poverty

TOP 5 ACHIEVEMENTS IN 2006

Pell ccrsciN NA eAcie\0 OND) eRe e-Ualmtesi0)¥ CerssH Oy OTN LAN
rocessing the Solomon Islands Road Improvement (Sector)
st, which was well coordinated with partners and had
FTO) HIATT

Employed an innovative appr ate Partnerships
in the Papua New Guinea HIV/AIDS Project, which had significant
cofinancing

Drew up the first results-based country strategy and program for
Papua New Guinea

Conducted performance assessments in weakly performing
countries, w rve as a basis for policy dialogue aimed at
improving governance and development effectiveness

Launched regional initiatives in private se
statistics, and aviation

OlNel(e)onererniemr-U(61im

 

reduction. The Pacific strategy (2005-2009) provides the
framework for ADB operations in the 14 Pacific developing
member countries and for support for regional cooperation.
Priority areas for ADB facilitation of regional cooperation in
the Pacific are to be further identified in the regional cooperation strategy (2007-2011) due for completion in 2007.

ADB regional assistance in 2006 supported the Pacific's
own development strategy, the Pacific Plan endorsed by leaders of 16 Forum island countries in October 2005, and followed on from earlier ADB support for analytical input to the
plan. Key priorities in the plan are supported by ADB’s private
sector development initiative and through ADB support for
regional statistical development. Two other regional technical assistance projects were approved—one that focuses on
improving governance and accountability in Pacific devel
TABLE 16 Pacific: Portfolio Performance Indicators for Sovereign Lending, 2005-2006

 

 

 

 

No. of Contract Awards/Commitments Disbursements Loans at Risk

Ongoing Loans 2006 2005 2006 2005 2006 2005
Country (as of Dec 2006) ($ million) ($ million) ($ million) ($ million) (%) (%)
Cook Islands 1 0.01 0.63 0.33 Ae = =
Fiji Islands 4 9.07 19.70 9.68 14.07 50.0 os
Kiribati 1 cm 0.94 0.15 1.56 ca a
Marshall Islands 1 = 1.45 0.10 0.80 100.0 oe
Micronesia, Fed. States of 5 3.69 BT 2.46 TTS. 40.0 60.0
Papua New Guinea 12 23.07 24.95 29.28 21.50 8.3 10.0
Samoa s 1.74 0.35 1.63 2.66 = 20.0
Solomon Islands 1 0.78 8.81 4.09 2.76 = =
Tuvalu 2 3.18 = 1.18 0.10 = 100.0
Regional 1 eet a 0.15 = a et
Total 31 41.52 60.60 49.04 46.37 19.4 22.6

 

 

== nil.
Note: Totals may not add up because of rounding.

70oping member countries and one that aims to strengthen
regional cooperation among them. A study on options to
improve cooperation across the land border between Papua
New Guinea and Indonesia was initiated. ADB continued its
support to ongoing regional cooperation initiatives, including
the Pacific Aviation Safety Office, Pacific Financial Technical
Assistance Centre, and the regional HIV/AIDS strategy.

Pacific Aviation Safety Office

To promote regional cooperation and create shared
capacity, ADB has helped eight Pacific countries—Cook
Islands, Fiji Islands, Kiribati, Papua New Guinea, Samoa,
Solomon Islands, Tonga, and Vanuatu—establish the
Pacific Aviation Safety Office. The project, approved
in 2005, is financed through a sovereign public sector
regional loan to an intergovernmental organization and
supported by guarantees by the participating countries. It
is an example of how innovative intergovernmental finance
can enable regional technical cooperation to improve
service quality, reduce costs, and achieve financial sustainability. The project is now being implemented through an
associated technical assistance grant for legal and regulatory
harmonization, and is expected to conclude in 2010.

Managing the Environment

Pacific countries are highly dependent economically
and culturally on their natural environment. However,
the health and productivity of natural systems are

FIGURE 5 Pacific: ADB Lending by Country,
2005-2006 (Sovereign and Nonsovereign)
($ million)

Cook Islands 2.83

Fiji Islands 25100
Kiribati
Marshall Islands

Micronesia,
Fed. States of

Nauru

O08 53.0

New Guinea
Samoa 8.06

Solomon
Islands

Tonga
Tuvalu
Vanuatu

Regional |) 1.50

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

0 10 20 30 40 50 60
2005 ™ 2006

TABLE 17 Paci

 

Cumulative Lending and

Disbursements by Country as of the end of 2006

 

 

 

($ million)

Country Lending Disbursements
Cook Islands 29.50 26.48
Fiji Islands 249.90 170.24
Kiribati 15.14 13.70
Marshall Islands 78.13 64.09
Micronesia, Fed. States of 75.14 39.24
Nauru 5.00 2.30
Papua New Guinea 926.99 663.30
Samoa 129.98 104.29
Solomon Islands 79.31 62.00
Tonga 5779, 52.26
Tuvalu 7.82 5.44
Vanuatu 51.25 48.99
Regional 1.50 120.23
Total 1,707.43 1,372.56

 

Note: Totals may not add up because of rounding.

coming under increasing pressures. A broad consensus
has been reached over the past decade on the most
significant environmental problems facing the Pacific.
Eight priority concerns consistently emerge: threats to
freshwater resources, degradation of the marine and
coastal environment, degradation of land and forest,
urbanization and waste management issues, depletion
of biological diversity, energy-related environmental
concerns, adaptation to climate change, and weak
environmental governance.

FIGURE 6 Pacific: ADB Disbursements by Country,
2005-2006 (Sovereign and Nonsovereign)

($ million)

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

1.17]
Cook Islands 033
14.07
Fiislands | 9.68
1.5
Kiribati 018
0.80
Marshall Islands 0.10
Micronesia, 1.75
Fed. States of [MMM 2.46
0.00
Nauru 0.00
Papua 21.50
‘vn TT | 29.22
2/66
Samoa lm 16
Solomon 2176
islands [MM |4.09
0.00
Tonga | 9.99
wats [y019
0.00
Vanuatu 6.00
0 5 10 15 20 25 30 35
2005 ™ 2006

71

1k1IDVdPACIFIC

 

Environmental management is crucial in Pacific countries, which are highly dependent economically and culturally on their natural environment

ADB has helped selected Pacific developing member
countries prepare country environmental analyses, which
provide inputs to country strategies and programs and
updates, and medium-term development. strategies,
particularly in meeting the eight key environmental challenges. Country environmental analyses have been completed in 2006 in two countries—Kiribati and Samoa. The
studies identify priority areas in policy, institutional, and
legislative mechanisms, as well as in programs or projects
that will help mainstream environmental concerns into
economic development planning. Country environmental
analysis recommendations have been incorporated into
the country strategy and program (2006-2010) of Papua
New Guinea and the strategy and program update
(2007-2011) of the Marshall Islands.

ADB pays attention to compliance with its environmental safeguard policy, rigorously reviewing projects
during processing and implementation. In one case in
2006, the review of a proposed Papua New Guinea gas
project generated specific recommendations for protecting the unique tropical rainforests with high biodiversity
and for ensuring compliance with ADB's forest policy.

TABLE 18 Pacific: Sovereign Loan Approval, 2006
($ million)

   

ADB pays attention to compliance
with its environmental safeguard
policy, rigorously reviewing
projects during processing and
implementation

Improving Governance and Preventing Corruption
Following ADB’s approval in July 2006 of the second
governance and anticorruption action plan, the Pacific
Department began preparing for its implementation.
Discussions were held with the Government of Samoa,
which agreed to participate in the first phase of the plan
in 2007. This will involve preparing risk assessment and
management plans for three themes (public financial
management, procurement, and anticorruption measures)
in key operational sectors.

ADB approved in December 2006 a regional technical
assistance of $1.6 million for Strengthening Governance
and Accountability in Pacific Island Countries. Cofinanced
by Australia, this project has two components. The primary

 

 

 

Total Date
Country OCR ADF Total Project Cost? Approved
Papua New Guinea
Road Maintenance and Upgrading (Sector) (Supplementary) 35.00 18.00 53.00 78.07 29 Jun
Total 35.00 18.00 53.00 78.07

 

ADF = Asian Development Fund, OCR = ordinary capital resources.

a Total project cost includes financing by ADB, governments, borrowers, beneficiaries, and subborrowers; cofinancing from official, export credit, and commercial sources;

equity sponsors; and local participating private companies and financial institutions.

72component is to strengthen public auditing capacity in Pacific
island countries. The secondary component will strengthen
the governance and anticorruption orientation of ADB's
country partnership strategies in the Pacific region.

Portfolio Management

Actual performance achieved against projected targets
in contract awards ($41.5 million) and disbursements
($49.0 million) has been more than 100% (Table 16). Papua
New Guinea contributed 56% of contract awards and 60%
of disbursements, and Fiji Islands, 22% and 20%. Six loans
and seven technical assistance projects have been delegated
to the resident missions. The number of active technical assistance projects has been substantially reduced from an average of 115 during the past 3 years to 87 in 2006. Technical
assistance savings of about $2.4 million were realized in
2006. Project-readiness criteria have been made mandatory
for all projects being processed. Project administration unit
meetings were held separately with resident missions.

COUNTRY HIGHLIGHTS

COOK ISLANDS

ADB assistance supports public sector management, private
sector development, and improvement in_ infrastructure
acilities in compliance with ADB’s environmental safeguards.
Preparation of the country partnership strategy for 2007-2009
began with an analysis of the economic conditions, development constraints, and opportunities.

A cyclone in 2005 led to broad acknowledgement of
he need to climate-proof infrastructure. ADB's Cyclone
Emergency Assistance Project was implemented and helped
avert a shock to the economy. In particular, it catalyzed
significant grant funding to finance the overall reconstrucion plan. With technical assistance from ADB, a master
plan for environmentally sustainable infrastructure was
completed in 2006. Technical assistance for the Legal and
nstitutional Strengthening of Environmental Management
Project was completed. The technical assistance helped the

 

In support of the new country
partnership strategy, ADB prepared
several thematic assessments,
including the Fiji Islands

country gender assessment

 

  

ea | VANES aa
ADB supports an Alternative Livelihood Development Project in the Fiji
Islands

Government develop an integrated system of regulations, bylaws, and laws that will provide the institutional mechanisms
for implementing the Environment Act 2003. No loans or
technical assistance projects were approved.

In April 2006, the Government, New Zealand's
International Aid and Development Agency (NZAID), and
Australian Agency for International Development (AusAID)
invited ADB to participate as an observer in the 2007 HighLevel Discussions between the Government and NZAID/
AusAID. This sets the stage for possible joint programming
beginning 2007.

FIJI ISLANDS

ADB and the Government agreed that a country partnership strategy to cover 2007-2011 would address macroeconomic stability and fiscal governance, inclusive growth
through increased levels of investment, and private sector
development.

In support of the new country partnership strategy, ADB
prepared several thematic assessments, including the country
gender assessment. ADB also helped foster coordinated assistance to the country, particularly in economic management.
However, the military coup late in the year has given rise to
some economic uncertainty.

The public sector's weaknesses in economic management were acknowledged and Fiji Islands’ Strategic
Development Plan defined far-reaching targets. Policy

73

 

D1sIDWdPACIFIC

dialogue with the Government led to the adoption of
legislation that encourages private-public partnerships,
support for state-owned enterprise reform and management of utilities, and development of a cohesive set of
policies to reform economic management. The program
continues to support economic infrastructure and the
development of alternative livelihoods.

ADB approved $1.5 million for three technical assistance projects: Preparing the Renewable Power Sector
Development Project, Preparing Economic Restructuring
Program Loan, and Improving Infrastructure Services.
Ongoing projects included the Alternative Livelihood
Development Project, approved for $25.0 million in 2005.

KIRIBATI

ADB's strategy focuses on promoting balanced growth
throughout the archipelago to relieve the stresses
on the capital atoll, and on helping improve public
finance management. The strategy aims to develop
an economic growth center on Christmas Island and
support sustainable urban development so that people can move out of the overcrowded capital. ADB's
policy dialogue focuses on economic management,
improvement of fiscal conditions in collaboration with
development partners, and development of appropriate land allocation strategy for new development. ADB
has participated in joint reviews of the public finance
management with development partners to prepare
coordinated assistance programs to help improve
fiscal governance. It approved a technical assistance
of $630,000 for the Integrated Land and Population
Development Program on Kiritimati Island.

 

MARSHALL ISLANDS

The continued emphasis of ADB's country strategy and
program on enhanced consultation and participation of
stakeholders appeared to bear fruit. Discussions on public
policies and programs increased between all levels of
government and civil society and helped enhance trans
Discussions on public policies
and programs increased between
all levels of government and

civil society and helped enhance
transparency and accountability

74

 

A road upgrading project in the Fiji Islands

parency and accountability. The approved country strategy
and program update (2007-2011) continues to focus on
strengthening the environment for improved public and
private sector performance. It also strengthens the focus
on monitoring and managing for results. Technical assistance was approved for the Pilot Collaborative Public
Services Delivery Project and for the Building Capacity for
Independent Country Partnership Strategy and Country
Performance Assessment Results Management in Republic
of Marshall Islands—A Pacific Pilot Project.

The country has outstanding loan service payments that
prevent further loan assistance from ADB.

FEDERATED STATES OF MICRONESIA

ADB assistance included five ongoing loans and three ongoing technical assistance projects. Activities under these
technical assistance projects included the release of the
Federated States of Micronesia 2005 Economic Report and
the development of secured-transactions legislation and
implementation of a secured-transactions registry accessible via the Internet.

No loan was approved. One technical assistance project to implement the public sector capacity-building road
map was approved for $600,000.

In March 2006, ADB supported a 3-day retreat for government, private sector, and civil society representatives
that focused on governance and the strategic development of the Federated States of Micronesia. ADB hosted
a consultative group meeting in November to examine
progress and problems in implementing the country’s
Strategic Development Plan 2004-2023.Pacific Leaders
LEAP Forward

Leaders in ADB's Pacific developing member countries are
finding better ways to implement development programs,
thanks to the innovative Leadership Enhancement and
Advancement Program (LEAP) funded by ADB.

The program has helped senior and middle-level
executives from the public and private sectors in
13 of the 14 Pacific developing member countries
understand and discuss common problems like
poverty, slow growth, weak governance, weak
regulatory frameworks, conflict of traditional systems
and formal organizational processes, underdeveloped
human resources, and brain drain.

The program has also helped officials from the 13
participating countries network with each other and share
information and experience to tackle common issues.

Priscilla Maruariki, management accountant, Ministry
of Finance and Economic Planning, Cook Islands, had
this to say of the workshop she attended in October
2006: “We have learned a lot about leadership, the
value of having visionary leaders and having a holistic
approach to issues, and the need to connect various
stakeholders and to uphold the principles of integrity
and fairness. Maybe in future meetings we will be sharing
our success stories. It's a long journey but | believe our
journey starts today when we go back to our countries.”

The program has helped provide demand-driven
training courses for selected leaders, including
in-service training organized jointly with partner

institutions, to meet the specific requirements of
governments, the private sector, and civil society.

The program has assessed the training needs of
Pacific officials, created benchmarks of leadership
competencies, designed training courses, established a
monitoring and evaluation framework to measure the
impact of training, developed strategies to strengthen
the network of learning institutions and service
providers in the Pacific, and trained trainers to continue
the program after ADB assistance ends.

The most recent LEAP workshop included
23 participants from seven Pacific developing member
countries who met at ADB headquarters in October
2006 to gain practical insights, approaches, and tools
to help implement strategic plans and programs; develop
their own perspectives and models for successful
implementation within their respective contexts; and
design action points to improve implementation of
plans and programs.

Ryke Solomon, deputy secretary, Department of Finance
and Development Planning, Nauru, said of the workshop:
“We learned much from the various experiences that
had been shared in this workshop. ..hope we take
them back to our respective countries and are able to
implement our plans and programs effectively.”

The program has helped officials
from the 13 participating countries
network with each other and
share information and experience
to tackle common issues

ekieki —
Tekeeua Tarati

4 aati
ROUP 4 Gerson Jackson

Executives from Pacific countries share information and experience

   

75

D1dIDVdPACIFIC

NAURU

One technical assistance project was completed in 2006:
Reform of the Nauru Phosphate Corporation (cofinanced
by the Government of Australia). Discussions on further
assistance are under way. Nauru has an outstanding loan
service payment that prevents further loan assistance from
ADB at present.

PALAU

Palau’s first country strategy and program update
was endorsed in August 2006. The strategic focus of
ADB's assistance to Palau during the update period
of 2007-2009 is to strengthen economic and fiscal
management, promote policies for private sector development, and facilitate sound infrastructure development
and management.

ADB's major contribution in Palau over the medium term
will involve policy advice and technical assistance. Countryspecific and regional technical assistance projects with
Palau’s participation will be processed during the strategy
and program update period. Palau is invited to participate
in ongoing regional technical assistance projects, including
Strengthening Poverty Analysis and Strategies in the Pacific,
Strengthening Pro-Poor Policy in the Pacific, Diagnostic
Studies for Secured Transactions Reforms in the Pacific
Region, and Mainstreaming Environmental Considerations
in Economic and Development Planning Processes in
Selected Pacific Developing Member Countries.

PAPUA NEW GUINEA

With strong support from the Government, ADB drew up
the first results-based country strategy and program for
2006-2010 based on the Government's medium-term
development strategy. Consolidating earlier ADB program themes, the country strategy and program focuses
on four strategic areas: public financial management,
private sector development, the transport sector, and
health and HIV/AIDS.

ADB increased its participation in policy dialogue and its
assistance for the preparation of new projects. It approved
the first ADF grant project for Papua New Guinea. The
project, which Australia and New Zealand are cofinancing,
will help prevent and control HIV/AIDS in rural development
enclaves, strengthen surveillance, and introduce the social
marketing of condoms.

76

SAMOA

ADB's three-pronged strategy for Samoa is designed to
accelerate private sector growth and create a sound macroeconomic environment, strengthen basic social services
by providing infrastructure, and provide access to quality education for all. The strategy is being implemented
through the Second Education Sector Project, the technical assistance for Preparing the Power Sector Expansion
Program, and continued implementation of the Drainage
and Sanitation Project and the Small Business Development
Project. To support macroeconomic management, ADB is
providing technical assistance for Promoting Economic
Use of Customary Land and is supporting privatization.
ADB was invited as an observer to join high-level
strategy talks between the governments of Australia, New
Zealand, and Samoa to help harmonize donor assistance.

SOLOMON ISLANDS

ADB's updated strategy for the Solomon Islands
(2007-2009) focuses on transportation infrastructure
and services, and private sector development. In early
2006, the scope of the ongoing Post-Conflict Emergency
Rehabilitation Project was significantly expanded, with
support from Australia and New Zealand. The Solomon
Islands Road Improvement Project was approved, funded

ADB's major contribution in Palau
over the medium term will involve
policy advice and technical assistance

   

ADB continued its support to education in Samoajointly by ADB, Australia, and New Zealand, to restore
and repair damaged infrastructure and improve the efficiency and effectiveness of the national transportation
network. No loans or technical assistance projects were
approved in 2006.

TIMOR-LESTE

ADB is intensifying its focus on infrastructure support in
Timor-Leste. Reversing the decline in infrastructure assets
and services is a high priority for the country. Meanwhile,
capacity constraints restrict the Government's ability to fully
utilize the capital development budget allocations. ADB
and the Australian Agency for International Development
are preparing a $25 million 5-year joint technical assistance program to help infrastructure ministries execute
their capital programs.

ADB's three-pronged strategy for
Samoa is designed to accelerate
private sector growth and create a
sound macroeconomic environment,
strengthen basic social services by
providing infrastructure, and provide
access to quality education for all

Political crises and violence affected ADB operations in
Timor-Leste. Work was suspended on an ADB-supported
road rehabilitation project and the start of a follow-on project
was delayed. Technical assistance for preparing a proposed
water supply and sanitation project for Dili under the Japan
Special Fund was also suspended.

Work on preparing the water supply and sanitation
project did not recommence in 2006 but resumed on the
road rehabilitation project ahead of any other Governmentor donor-funded project. By year-end, road works under the
Second Emergency Infrastructure Rehabilitation Project were
95% complete and road connectivity had been maintained in
very difficult terrain on several critical north-south routes.

TONGA

ADB's strategy supports macroeconomic stability and
continuing economic and public sector reforms in the
context of Tonga’s Strategic Development Plan Eight,
2006/07-2008/09 (SDP-8) adopted in 2006 and the
approved technical assistance for the implementation of
SDP-8 and for Rationalization of Public Enterprises Phase
lll. ADB prepared an urban development project for
processing, and reviewed the project's capacity to support
the rebuilding effort in the aftermath of riots and the destruction of the capital’s business district in late 2006. ADB
is developing pilot models under a technical assistance for
Youth Microenterprise Development.

 

TT

D1sIDWdPACIFIC

78

A Path to Progress in
Timor-Leste

In one of the world’s poorest countries, roads provide
poor farming communities with a way to get their
produce to market and the Government with the means
to deliver essential services to rural communities. TimorLeste has an extensive road network of about 6,000
km, but lack of maintenance during years of conflict,
combined with torrential rains and difficult geological
conditions in the mountainous country, has resulted in
rapid deterioration of the roads. Only 24% of national
roads and 11% of district roads are in good condition,
leading to high operating and repair costs for providers
of public transport. This means high passenger fares,
creating particular difficulties for the poor.

The ADB-supported Emergency Infrastructure
Rehabilitation Project (Phase 2), in operation since
2002, has helped provide much-needed work to the
poorest of the poor while improving access to markets
and to education, health, and other basic services.

Project implementation since September 2004 has
mostly kept pace with the revised schedule. In 2006,

the country experienced extreme difficulties because
of civil unrest, which began in the capital, Dili, in April
and continued until September, with further occasional
disturbances reported until the end of the year. Asa
result, public and private sectors companies based in
Dili faced severe operational difficulties for a significant
part of 2006. The ADB team remained in the country
during the crisis and was able to remobilize several
contractors in June 2006 and recommence works—the
first works anywhere in the country to restart. By the end of
December 2006, overall construction progress for the seven
road contracts and Cassa Bridge had been 93% completed.
The project continues to create jobs, inject money
into poor communities, connect them to services,
and reduce economic costs.

The Emergency Infrastructure
Rehabilitation Project has
provided much-needed work to
the poorest of the poor while
improving access to markets
and to education, health,

and other basic services

 

The emergency infrastructure rehabilitation creates jobs and builds roadsYoung people at the Maoro Community School on Malaita, Solomon
Rehabilitation Project

TUVALU

ADB's operational strategy focuses on harmonizing efforts
with other assistance agencies to improve governance
and economic management; enhance job prospects
through skills development, particularly through the
Tuvalu Maritime Training Institute; and improve services
on the outer islands, where poor and vulnerable groups
are concentrated, partly through sustainable financing
mechanisms such as the Falekaupule Trust Fund. A country
partnership strategy (2007-2011) is being formulated
jointly with the Government and the Australian Agency
for International Development and in close consultation
with New Zealand’s International Aid and Development
Agency. ADB hosts regular quarterly reviews with other
development partners such as the European Union, United
Nations Development Programme, France, and Japan. The
interagency cooperation strategy focuses on joint commitment on macroeconomic performance benchmarks that will
underpin technical assistance for tax reforms and other fiscal
management issues. ADB prepared an assessment of the
country’s public finance management conditions, published
in the Pacific Islands Economic Report series.

ADB approved technical assistance worth $300,000 to
support Capacity Building for Taxation Reforms. No loans

   

Islands, where the community discussed the Post-Conflict Emergency

were approved. An abbreviated public expenditure and financial assessment study was undertaken in October-November
2006 and has been widely distributed for comments.

VANUATU

ADB's updated program for Vanuatu for 2006-2009 focuses
on promoting sustainable economic growth led by the private sector. The 4-year country program consists of technical
assistance grants amounting to $2.5 million to improve regulatory institutions and increase access to finance. Technical
assistance was approved to help modernize commercial and
financial laws. ADB, in partnership with the National Bank
of Vanuatu, has pioneered a project to create sustainable,
profitable rural microlending. This rural microfinance project
will be expanded in 2007. ADB is also working toward a plan
to help reform the company registration process in 2008. This
work complements ongoing activities to develop a secured
transactions framework that will increase access to finance.
No loans were approved.

Technical assistance was approved
to help modernize commercial
and financial laws in Vanuatu

79

D1sIDWdSOUTH ASIA

Bangladesh, Bhutan, India, Maldives, Nepal,
Sri Lanka

ADB's assistance to the region further strengthened with the approval of
$1 billion—ADB’s largest single loan from regular resources in 8 years—to
make affordable financial services available to India’s rural poor. The Rural
Cooperative Credit Restructuring and Development Program involves a
comprehensive reform of the cooperative credit structure to improve
poor farmers’ access to credit in five Indian states. The German Bank for
Reconstruction and Development, which has worked with ADB in designing the project, will provide parallel financing of €140 million.

In its medium-term strategy and action plan for South Asia, ADB
has proposed to be more selective and focused in its operations in each
developing member country to achieve greater development results and
impact. ADB approved 18 loans for $2.0 billion for South Asian developing
member countries, with 21.5% of this amount financed from ADB's concessional window, the Asian Development Fund (ADF) (Table 21, Figure 7).
These loans support rural credit provision, primary and secondary education, rural roads, urban infrastructure, and the financial sector. Cumulative
lending for the region amounted to $31.1 billion (Table 20). In addition,
ADB assistance to South Asia in 2006 included equity investments of $72.6
million, grants of $164.9 million, technical assistance of $64.4 million, and
four multitranche financing facilities of $1.6 billion.

Regional Cooperation

ADB approved its first regional cooperation strategy and program for
South Asia (2006-2008). ADB’s strategy focuses on five key operational
objectives: improve connectivity, facilitate trade and investment, develop
regional tourism, facilitate cooperation in energy, and promote private
sector cooperation.

The South Asia Subregional Economic Cooperation Program, which
brings together Bangladesh, Bhutan, India, and Nepal, gained new momentum with the identification and implementation of projects as well as closer
coordination with the South Asian Association for Regional Cooperation
and the Bay of Bengal Initiative for Multi-Sectoral Technical and Economic
Cooperation. ADB supported the dialogue of various South Asia Subregional
Economic Cooperation working groups. These working groups prioritized
four loan projects that will establish a hub and a training and research center
on information and communications technology, develop tourism infrastructure, establish a transport link, and build trade facilitation infrastructure.

81

VISV HLNOSADB further strengthened its cooperation with the
South Asian Association for Regional Cooperation by
implementing measures to improve regional multimodal
transport connectivity and by exploring an investment
financing mechanism. A $1 million regional technical assistance was approved to facilitate energy sector dialogue
and develop the capacity of the energy center of the South
Asian Association for Regional Cooperation.

ADB also stepped up support to the Bay of Bengal
Initiative for Multi-Sectoral Technical and Economic
Cooperation to enhance transport and logistics in the region. A regional technical assistance for $960,000 will help
countries that are part of this initiative identify measures to
enhance transport infrastructure, improve logistics, reduce
transport time, and lower transport costs. This initiative will
strengthen links between South Asia and Southeast Asia.

An important development in regional cooperation
in South Asia was the ratification of the South Asian Free
Trade Agreement, effective 1 January 2006. The agreement
marks an important milestone for the region and is a key step
toward greater regional integration and the formation of a
South Asian economic union. Through the trade agreement,
customs tariffs for goods will be reduced to 0-5% by 2016
and a free trade area established in South Asia.

Knowledge Management

ADB recognizes the critical importance of economic, thematic,
and sector work as knowledge products that are fundamental
to the preparation, design, implementation, and ultimate impact of ADB lending and nonlending to South Asia. Knowledge
management initiatives in South Asia included the publication
of Annual Report: SARD Economic, Thematic and Sector Work,
2005, which contains abstracts of 103 studies completed in
2005, and the creation of an intranet website that features an
online economic, thematic, and sector work library and the
latest economic indicators for South Asian countries, as well as
recent external research and studies on South Asia.

TOP 5 ACHIEVEMENTS IN 2006

SU oe NSU NM LcOR-O INGO Me NIM SM ClO e- UM LOO UE
development partners to support primary education in Bangladesh

Pioneered the implementation of the second ADB governance
and anticorruption action plan in South Asia, developing a
methodology that will become the tem plate for ADB risk
ESSER}

Sharpened focus on outcomes that matter to developing member
countries in South Asia by mainstreaming the managing for
development results approach into country partnership strategies

Promoted new financing instruments and modalities through road
shows and workshops in Bangladesh, India, and the Maldive:

Attracted wide media attention with the South Asia Economic
Report, a biannual publication on economics and development
in the region

 

In December 2006, the third annual economists’ conference brought together ADB's South Asia country economists
to discuss papers on the South Asia development model
and the regional trade and integration in South Asia. The
Australia-ADB South Asia Development Partnership Facility is
providing $320,000 grant assistance for further research on
intraregional trade and investment in South Asia.

Another important initiative is South Asia Economic Report,
a series of biannual reports on economic and development issues in South Asia that provides a unique regional perspective.
Against the background of increasing awareness of a regional
identity, this series discusses common regional trends as well
as differences among South Asian countries in socioeconomic
development. Publication of South Asia Economic Report received
wide attention in the international print and TV news media.

Portfolio Management
Focusing on results, ADB enhanced portfolio performance
in South Asia by improving project readiness, strengthening

TABLE 19 South Asia: Portfolio Performance Indicators for Sovereign Lending, 2005-2006

 

 

 

 

No. of Contract Awards/Commitments Disbursements Loans at Risk

Ongoing Loans 2006 2005 2006 2005 2006 2005
Country (as of Dec 2006) ($ million) ($ million) ($ million) ($ million) (%) (%)
Bangladesh 40 367.89 366.84 321.73 257.63 10.0 10.5
Bhutan 6 2.60 2.48 4.60 12.45 oe =
India 32 1,714.75 1,037.36 701.41 641.00 6.3 24.2
Maldives We 7.65 13.38 4.93 4.94 14.3 a
Nepal 23 101.59 69.59 108.01 43.66 17.4 30.4
Sri Lanka 47 144.89 201.27 180.42 206.00 17.0 383
Total 155 2,339.37 1,690.91 1,321.09 1,165.68 12.3 14.9

 

 

Note: Totals may not add up because of rounding.

82procurement and public financial management, and introducing a results reporting system. New record levels were

reached in contract awards and

commitments ($2.3 billion, a

38% increase over 2005) and disbursements ($1.3 billion, a

13% increase over 2005) (Table
Despite the challenging po!
portfolio performance was

19, Figure 8).
itical situation in Bangladesh,
improved through ADB's

concerted efforts with the Government to reduce start-up

delays, prepare project proposal
readiness during processing.
loans increased to the highest
past 10 years. A joint country

Is on time, and ensure project
Disbursements for sovereign
level for Bangladesh over the
portfolio review mission was

conducted with the joint strategy and program partners, and
an action plan was prepared in close consultation with the
Government to improve portfolio performance.

Joint efforts by ADB and the Government of India
resulted in improved project readiness, project implementation, and overall portfolio performance. A cluster
technical assistance facility was created to prepare projects
and develop capacity so that projects in the program for
2007-2009 are ready to award contracts by the time
they become effective. Sector-focused, tripartite portfolio
review meetings are held regularly with executing agencies, and implementation problems are discussed upfront,
resulting in a marked improvement in contract awards
and disbursements. Sovereign public sector loan disbursements increased to the highest level for India since ADB
commenced lending operations in 1986.

The results-based country portfolio review for Nepal
adopted a portfolio management strategy that provided a
number of effective measures that clearly improved portfolio performance. Specific actions included improving

 

 

ADB supports human resource development in South Asia

TABLE 20 South Asia: Cumulative Lending and
Disbursements by Country as of the end of 2006
($ million)

 

 

 

 

Country Lending Disbursements
Bangladesh 8,299.79 5,894.37
Bhutan 176.06 103.42
India 16,448.21 8,856.54
Maldives 91.48 62.18
Nepal 2,300.98 1,545.20

Sri Lanka 3,763.25 2,754.33
Total 31,079.77 19,216.04
FIGURE 7 South Asia:

ADB Lending by Country, 2005-2006
(Sovereign and Nonsovereign)
($ million)

Bangladesh

Bhutan

 

io 1535.00
Maldives
Nepal
Sri Lanka
0 400 800 1,200 1,600

2005 (i 2006

FIGURE 8 South Asia: ADB Disbursements by
Country, 2005-2006 (Sovereign and Nonsovereign)
($ million)

Bangladesh
Bhutan

698.48

India 711192

Maldives
Nepal

Sri Lanka

 

0 100 200 300 400 500 600 700 800
2005 ™™ 2006

83

WISW HLNOSSOUTH ASIA

project readiness, harmonizing with donors on procurement, intensively engaging with the Government, improving financial management, and intensive spring cleaning.

The Sri Lankan portfolio weakened mainly because of
the security situation in the north and east of the country,
which has slowed down reconstruction in all uncleared
areas, and because the post-tsunami reconstruction boom
continues to use up available construction materials and
skilled labor. Government ministries are also confronted
with increasingly scarce human resources to supervise and
administer complex projects.

COUNTRY HIGHLIGHTS

BANGLADESH

The new country strategy and program (2006-2010),
approved in 2005, was one of the first prepared using

a results-based approach. It was developed jointly with
the United Kingdom's Department for International
Development, Government of Japan, and World Bank. The
joint country strategy and program allows ADB to be more
selective and focused while providing coordinated support, along with the other country strategy and program
partners, to reforms that are difficult but fundamentally
important to poverty reduction and economic growth.
The political situation remained the main challenge to
smooth program delivery, particularly in the last quarter of
the year. However, close coordination with the Government
helped mitigate the constraints. Policy dialogue with the
Government helped foster reforms in the energy, education,
and railways sectors. The dialogue focused on improvements in transparency and efficiency in public procurement,
portfolio performance, and preparation of operational risk
mitigation action plans to address key governance risks.
ADB operations helped remove critical constraints on
the investment climate and on empowering the poor by

TABLE 21 South Asia: Sovereign and Nonsovereign Loan Approvals by Country, 2006

 

 

 

 

 

 

($ million)
Total Date
Country OCR ADF Total Project Cost? Approved
SOVEREIGN
Bangladesh
Improvement of Capital Market and Insurance Governance - 3.00 3.00 4.00 9 Mar
Second Rural Infrastructure Improvement = 96.10 96.10 260.50 18 Aug
Secondary Towns Water Supply and Sanitation Sector - 41.00 41.00 71.10 16 Oct
Secondary Education Sector Development Program
- Project Loan = 85.00 85.00 113233) 26 Oct
- Program Loan = 30.00 30.00 30.00 26 Oct
Bhutan
Urban Infrastructure Development - 24.60 24.60 30.75 27 Sep
Financial Sector Development Program
- Program Loan a 11.00 11.00 11.00 7 Dec
- Project Loan = 2.00 2.00 250) 7 Dec
India
Rural Roads Sector Il Investment Program (Subproject 1) 180.00 = 180.00 236.00 31 Jul
Rural Cooperative Credit Restructuring and Development Program 1,000.00 - 1,000.00 1,000.00 8 Dec
Kolkata Environmental Improvement (Supplementary) 80.00 od 80.00 113.60 14 Dec
Nepal
Rural Finance Sector Development Cluster Program (Subprogram |) - 56.00 56.00. 64.70 26 Oct
Education Sector Program (Subprogram |) a 30.00 30.00 32.00 1 Dec
Sri Lanka
Secondary Towns and Rural Community-Based Water Supply
and Sanitation (Supplementary) 13.50 46.50 60.00 93.20 29 Nov
Subtotal 1,273.50 425.20 1,698.70 2,062.68
NONSOVEREIGN
India
NTPC Capacity Expansion Financing Facility 75.00 - 75.00 4,000.00 27 Jul
SREI Infrastructure Finance Limited, India 50.00 - 50.00 50.00 27 Jul
Dahej Liquefied Natural Gas Terminal Expansion 150.00 = 150.00 336.04 30 Aug
Subtotal 275.00 = 275.00 4,386.04
Total 1,548.50 425.20 1,973.70 6,448.72

 

a Total project cost includes financing by ADB, governments, borrowers, beneficiaries,
equity sponsors; and local participating private companies and financial institutions.

84

and subborrowers; cofinancing from official, export credit, and commercial sources;improving governance in the energy, transport, education, and integrated urban infrastructure sectors. Energy
reforms aimed to help the Government restructure the
power sector to ensure adequate and reliable power supply at competitive prices through increased private sector
participation and more efficient management and operations. Successful implementation of the Second Primary
Education Development Program, which will improve
the quality of primary education and its accessibility to
poor children is under way with ADB as the lead agency,
together with 10 other development partners.

ADB approved four projects totaling $255.1 million
for rural infrastructure improvement, secondary education, secondary towns’ water supply and sanitation, and
improvement of capital market and insurance governance. In addition, a multitranche financing facility for
the railways subsector ($430.0 million) was approved.
ADB also approved seven technical assistance grants
totaling $5.7 million.

The rural infrastructure improvement project will upgrade about 9,920 km of tertiary roads that make up the
rural road network to help reduce poverty in 23 districts
in north and central Bangladesh, providing the poor with
ready access to services. In secondary education, the
focus is on strengthening the sector’s management and
governance, the curricula and national examinations, and
teacher education, as well as furnishing and equipping
schools, training personnel, and upgrading the curricula.
The secondary towns’ water supply and sanitation sector
project will help provide sustainable access to improved
and safe water supply and sanitation services to about
1.6 million people in 16 towns, helping the Government
meet the water-related Millennium Development Goals
and its own poverty reduction targets. Finally, a loan to
improve good governance practices in the capital market
and the insurance sector will reinforce investor confidence
in financial markets.

BHUTAN

 

ADB's country operations were consistent with the goals
and objectives of the results-based country strategy and
program, which focuses on transport, power, urban
development, and financial and private sector development. ADB approved loans for two projects—the Urban
Infrastructure Development Project ($24.6 million) and
the Financial Sector Development Program ($13.0 million).
The project aims to improve urban infrastructure facilities
and basic urban services in Thimpu and Phuentsholing,

Bhutan’s two largest cities, as well as in Dagana, a regional
center. The program will improve governance, promote a
better investment climate, and encourage greater private
sector participation to ease constraints facing Bhutan’s
financial system.

ADB also approved five technical assistance grants
for a total of $1.9 million, four of which were for institutional strengthening and capacity development in urban
infrastructure, the financial sector, and debt management. Grant assistance from the Japan Fund for Poverty
Reduction amounting to $1.0 million was approved for
rural electricians’ training. ADB also processed, through the
Australia-ADB South Asia Development Partnership Facility,
a grant assistance for $0.5 million (part of the approved
$8.5 million Development Partnership Program for South
Asia regional technical assistance) to support anticorruption
efforts and good governance at the local level.

ADB's India program has
supported the Government's
efforts to combat poverty through
infrastructure-led growth

 

ADB supports primary and secondary education in South Asia

‘WISW HINOSSOUTH ASIA

INDIA

The country is one of the fastest-growing economies in
the world. The approach paper to the 11th Five-Year
Plan (2007-2011) reinforces the need for a broad-based
and inclusive growth strategy to further reduce poverty.
The need for good social and economic infrastructure
to facilitate and sustain high and inclusive growth is
critical.

Since 2003, ADB's India program has supported the
Government's efforts to combat poverty through infrastructure-led growth. The strategy’s continued relevance
is borne out by the high priority given by the Government
to infrastructure programs to improve power supply,
build highways, and promote urban development. ADB's
assistance program for 2007-2009 continues to focus on
infrastructure.

In 2006, ADB approved six loans amounting to $1.5 billion. In addition, three multitranche financing facilities
amounting to $1.1 billion were approved during the year.
Sovereign assistance includes loans for the Rural Cooperative
Credit Restructuring and Development Program ($1.0 billion), Kolkata Environmental Improvement Project (supplementary financing) ($80.0 million), and Rural Roads Sector
Il Investment Program (first periodic financing request)
($180.0 million), as well as multitranche financing facility
operations for the Uttaranchal Power Sector Investment
Program ($300.0 million), the Uttaranchal State Roads
Project ($550.0 million), and the North Karnataka Urban
Sector Investment Program ($270.0 million). ADB also
approved 12 technical assistance grants to India totaling
$30.6 million.

The Rural Cooperative Credit Restructuring and Development Program will address the problems faced by farmers
by undertaking a comprehensive reform of the cooperative
credit structure, which is impaired on the governance,
managerial, and financial fronts. The Uttaranchal Power
Project will harness the capacity of one of India’s poorest
states, which has undeveloped hydropower potential estimated at 20,000 megawatts, to meet the state’s needs for
clean and efficient energy and enable it to export power to
surrounding states. The Uttaranchal State Roads Project will
help improve the living standards of the rural population of
Uttaranchal through road upgrading. The North Karnataka
Urban Sector Program will rehabilitate existing, and construct new, urban infrastructure in the north of the state.

The private sector accounts for three fourths of
both gross domestic product and investment in India.
Development of the sector is therefore critical for growth.

 

86

   

A broad-based and inclusive growth strategy is critical to reducing
poverty

ADB's strategy under its private sector window is to
support infrastructure and financial sector projects by
providing long-term financial assistance. Approved loans
included two nonsovereign private sector loans amounting to $200.0 million, one with $75.0 million reinsurance.
In addition to these loans, $72.6 million was provided
for equity investments. Nonsovereign operations also
included a $75.0 million loan to National Thermal Power
Corporation, a state-owned enterprise, with $225.0 million in complementary financing under ADB's B-loan program to finance its power generation capacity expansion
program and reduce the country’s power shortfall.

MALDIVES

ADB is promoting energy, education, regional development, and private sector development.

In October 2005, the Government requested ADB to defer
all project-related assistance for 2006 and instead consider
providing a quick-disbursing program loan to help stabilize
the macroeconomic situation. ADB positively responded
to this request and developed the Public Sector Resource
Management Program operation. The policy dialogue is
continuing, with special emphasis on fiscal policy. ADB is
also helping the Government transform its role from providing social services to setting policy. A technical assistance for
Restructuring and Privatization of State-Owned Enterprises
amounting to $400,000 was approved in December 2006.
During the year, ADB continued to strengthen the capacity
of the Public Service Division and the Ministry of Finance
and Treasury.Lighting Up Lives
in Rural Bhutan

Darkness used to fall early in the Himalayan country

of Bhutan. In remote villages without electricity, this
meant parents stopped work early and children could
not do much studying at home. The lack of electricity
also limited the work of hospitals and the availability of
school facilities.

Since 2003, ADB and other international
organizations such as the Japan International
Cooperation Agency have helped dispel some of the
darkness through a program of rural electrification.
The Rural Electrification and Network Expansion
Project has brought electricity to over 8,000 new
consumers, including poor households, hospitals,
and schools.

Part of the loan included a special feature to
provide electrification kits to the poorest households.
A large barrier for the poorest households is the cost
to connect the house to the distribution system in
the village, which was about $75, as well as the cost
of doing internal wiring in the house. To address this,
the loan developed criteria to identify the poorest
households and provide them with the electrification
kits, which included a load limiter switch (instead
of a meter), cables for connecting to the distribution
system, and wires and outlets for wiring the house.

As more villagers use electricity for light, cooking,
and heating, people fall sick less often. In particular,
fewer women now suffer from eye and respiratory
ailments caused by kerosene lamps and wood fires.

As women increasingly use electrical appliances
like rice cookers, they have more time to augment
their meager family incomes with cottage industries
like weaving and tailoring. Both men and women are
able to work longer hours, thanks to electric lighting.
Other income-earning activities that have increased
in the project areas are microenterprises and cottage
industry, including carpentry and carving.

Dorji Wangmo of Decheling Gewog village is
delighted that she can now put on the rice cooker

and sit to weave. “Sometimes | keep on weaving till
late night because during the day | have to attend to
other household works,” she said.

Educational opportunities have improved for
children and adults: children can study after sundown
and adults attend evening classes conducted by the
Department of Education in the project areas.

A villager in Gelephu village said, “Now we don’t
have to depend on timber for cooking and our
children can also do their studies in a better way.”

The project's environmental benefits include
less pressure on forests as a source of household
fuel. Since 1995, when ADB first supported a rural
electricity project in Bhutan, kerosene use has come
down from an average of 10 liters a month to 1 liter.

Electrified villages have also reported a drop in
theft, burglary, and vandalism with light deterring
criminals.

Fewer women now suffer
from eye and respiratory
ailments caused by kerosene
lamps and wood fires

  

Economic activity has picked up with the provision of electricity

 

87

ViIsv HLNOSSOUTH ASIA

NEPAL

Significant political changes took place. An alliance of
seven political parties assumed power and Parliament
was reinstated following a political movement. These
developments facilitated peace negotiations with the
Communist Party of Nepal/Maoist, resulting in a historic peace accord in November 2006 and an end to the
decade-long conflict.

The peace accord has increased Nepal’s development
prospects. The improved security situation and environment for development have helped revive rural livelihoods
and economic and development activities. The peace
process also promises a conducive political and security
environment for postconflict reconstruction and rehabilitation and for the tackling of longer-term issues of
poverty, social exclusion, and weak governance—some
of the root causes of the conflict.

ADB prepared a country operations business
plan—which updates the 2005 country strategy and
program—to guide its operations from 2007 to 2009
in the changed political and development context. The
business plan retains the strategic priorities of the country
strategy and program: reducing poverty and addressing
the root causes of the conflict through broad-based economic growth, promoting inclusive social development,
and improving governance. The business plan seeks to
strengthen the results orientation of ADB's assistance to
help make development effective.

ADB approved a total of $169.9
million in ADF assistance. For the
first time in Nepal, about 50%
was in the form of ADF grants

 

i - %
Education is a core sector for ADB operations in Sri Lanka

838

ADB approved a total of $169.9 million in ADF assistance for four projects. For the first time in Nepal,
about 50% of this assistance was in the form of ADF
grants. The significantly high assistance resulted mainly
because of the rollover from the 2005 country program,
the processing of which was hampered by the prevailing political and security situation. ADB also approved
13 technical assistance grants totaling $6.4 million. A
project funded by the Japan Fund for Poverty Reduction
to improve the livelihoods of poor farmers and disadvantaged groups was also approved for $1.0 million. In the
medium term, ADB will support the Government in its
postconflict reconstruction and rehabilitation activities.

SRI LANKA

The core sectors of ADB's operations are transport,
education, water supply and sanitation, energy, and
rural development (small and medium-sized enterprises
and agriculture). The emphasis of the Government,
voted into power in November 2005, is spreading
development to rural areas to achieve the Millennium
Development Goals and reduce regional inequality and
income poverty. The Government intends to finalize
its 10-year development plan by early 2007. The plan
will form the basis for ADB's country partnership strategy, which will be finalized in late 2007. The security
situation is likely to have an impact on ADB's project
implementation and processing in the north and east
of the country. The ADB strategy will need to take into
account the security situation and its possible overall
impact on fiscal management.

ADB approved supplementary financing of $60.0 milion for the Secondary Towns and Rural Community-Based
Water Supply and Sanitation Project. It has a significant
community participation component, involving all stakeholders in project design, which is especially relevant
‘or its components in the north and east of the country.
Considerable progress in processing was made in three
urther loans. The project to expand Colombo Port moved
ahead with a memorandum of understanding signed
between the minister of ports and aviation and ADB in
September 2006, and the request for proposals for the
breakwater issued in January 2007. The bulk of the work for
a small and medium-sized enterprise development project
was completed in 2006. Major progress has been made
on the upgrading of a major expressway to the south to
our lanes. ADB approved four technical assistance grants
in 2006 for a total of $2.3 million.Women’s
Empowerment
Supports

Good Governance
in South Asia

A region al technical assistance project has demonstrated
that encouraging participation of citizens, particularly of
women and poor people, is good for local government.
By the time ADB funding ended in 2004, the project
had clearly improved governance and empowered
women in the project areas in Bangladesh, Nepal,

and Pakistan. As a result, development partners came
forward in each country to continue the project.

Under the ADB-supported Gender and Governance
Issues in Local Government Project, elected women
officials brought together government line officers and
the poorest constituents at regular village and district
forums to discuss local needs and identify ways to
mobilize government resources.

As a result of this participatory process, in 2 years,
women local council members in Bangladesh have
helped train more than 9,500 poor women and young
people through agriculture, livestock, and fishery
extension programs. Another 6,000 poor women
gained access to income-generating activities through
various poverty reduction programs from 2002 to 2004.

Female representatives mediated in nearly 4,000 cases
to settle issues important to villagers, including disputes
over land, dowry, early marriage, and polygamy.

In Nepal, women’s forums mobilized funds from
village development councils to fund 199 projects
ranging from infrastructure development and income
generation to forest and environmental management.
They also mediated disputes relating to domestic
violence and polygamy.

Women representatives from union councils in Pakistan
mobilized resources for 190 development schemes,
including water supply, road pavement, sewerage
and sanitation, school renovation, street lighting, and
vocational training center for girls. These representatives
also helped resolve cases of domestic violence and divorce.

The project has demonstrated the advantages of citizen
participation at the grassroots level and is enthusiastically
supported by its major stakeholders—local government,
local communities, and civil society. It is now being
implemented by a nongovernment organization (NGO) in
Bangladesh. In Nepal, the Ministry for Local Government
provided seed money to continue the work of the elected
women’s forums. In Pakistan, an NGO has integrated the
forums into its community organizing activities.

Encouraging participation
of citizens, particularly of
women and poor people, is
good for local government

 

89

VISV HLNOSSOUTHEAST ASIA

Brunei Darussalam, Cambodia, Indonesia,

Lao People’s Democratic Republic, Malaysia,
Myanmar, the Philippines, Singapore, Thailand,
Viet Nam

ADB's Mekong and Southeast Asia Departments were merged in May 2006
as part of the realignment of ADB’s regional departments. The merger
placed the 10 countries in Southeast Asia under a single department
(Southeast Asia Department).

Southeast Asia is an economically dynamic and socioculturally diverse
region. Its countries have demonstrated strong economic performance,
with an aggregate gross domestic product growth rate of over 5% in
2006. They have also made progress in implementing their reform agenda,
including macroeconomic management, legal and regulatory frameworks,
and governance. Development opportunities and challenges are different
from one country to another.

Southeast Asia is known for its success in regional cooperation and
integration. Its countries, which are at different development stages
and have various needs, have benefited from working together toward
common development goals. ADB’s realigning regional departments and
Brunei Darussalam’s joining ADB in 2006 brought new opportunities to
promote regional cooperation and integration. ADB worked closely with
the governments to solve development problems facing countries eligible
only for Asian Development Fund (ADF) resources as well as countries eligible for ordinary capital resources (OCR), while strengthening partnership
with others, including Malaysia and Singapore. ADB's closer engagemen
with these countries strengthened the programming approach to promoting connectivity and competitiveness and made it more meaningful, and
increased the region's sense of community by enhancing the countries’
links with each other.

ADB provided a total of $1.8 billion in loans to countries in Southeas
Asia, of which 28% was from the concessional ADF resources. Lending operations financed under the ADF and OCR were 48% higher than average
lending over the past 4 years. Cofinancing of $790.4 million was mobilized
for lending operations. ADB provided 59 technical assistance projects totaling $51.4 million for project preparation ($13.6 million), advisory ($27.2
million), and regional technical assistance ($10.6 million). It also processed
six Japan Fund for Poverty Reduction projects for $10.4 million, two Japan
Fund for Information and Communication Technology projects for almos:
$1.0 million, and one project of $1.0 million for Indonesia from the Asian
Tsunami Fund.

 

91

VISV LSVSHLNOSGreater Mekong Subregion (GMS). Two loans for
the GMS were approved: the $42 million loan for the GMS
Rehabilitation of the Railway in Cambodia, and the $60
million loan to Viet Nam for the GMS Kunming-Hai Phong
Transport Corridor: Yen Vien-Lao Cai Railway Upgrading
Project. ADB extended 11 technical assistance projects for
project preparation, and studies and advisory support for
regional cooperation from the Technical Assistance Special
Fund and Japan Special Fund amounting to $6 million for
the GMS. Key knowledge products were also upgraded and
updated, including the GMS webpage, e-newsletter, and
development matrix of priority subregional projects. The
GMS governments finalized the transport sector strategy
study. The GMS energy strategy study commenced and is
expected to be completed in March 2007. The GMS Core
Agriculture Support Program was prepared for endorsement
by GMS agriculture ministers in April 2007. Support for the
GMS Strategic Framework for Action on Trade Facilitation
and Investment was initiated in 2006.

The GMS Core Environment Program started during the
year. It is a 10-year program endorsed by the GMS Environment
Ministers Meeting in May 2005 and by the Second GMS
Summit of Leaders in July 2005. The program supports the
broad-based sustainable development of GMS countries by
mainstreaming the environment in the GMS Program. The
Biodiversity Conservation Corridors Initiative, which aims to
establish sustainable development and management regimes
in five GMS biodiversity corridor sites, is the flagship program
of the core environment program. The Working Group
on Environment, whose members include representatives
from the environment ministries of the GMS countries, is
the steering and oversight body for implementing the core
environment program. The Environment Operations Center
was established in Bangkok, Thailand, in April 2006 to serve
as the secretariat of the Working Group on Environment.
The center also coordinates and facilitates the timely and

TOP 5 ACHIEVEMENTS IN 2006

The merger of Mekong Department and Southeast Asia Department

under the ealignment produced operational synergies that

IiTcy sO KO(s) NSIS cA es DV OSM UNO CcM can (ISNA MIO RcIIeOUNSNNY

These included:

e Three results-based country strategies and programs and one
country operations business plan, and an enhanced engagement
with Indonesia and the Philippines

An updated regional cooperation strategy and program for
the Greater Mekong Subregion and strengthened links with
Association of Southeast Asian Nations members and programs

Emergency assistance to Indonesia, the Philippines, and Viet
Nam, and support for their long-term disaster preparedness
programs

Enhanced inclusive development through projects and programs
that help ethnic minorities in Cambodia, the Lao People’s
Democratic Republic (Lao PDR), and Viet Nam, particularly in
combating HIV/AIDS

Support for good governance and reform in the Lao PDR, the
Fea) ONeSMecULO RY (cim\ UN)

 

effective implementation of the core environment program
in collaboration with various partners in governments, nongovernment organizations (NGOs), and local communities.
Greater synergy between the GMS and national programs and strategies has been a strategic priority of the
country strategy and program papers for the Lao People’s
Democratic Republic (Lao PDR) and Viet Nam, which the
Board endorsed in October 2006. The strategies and programs were closely aligned with the GMS regional cooperation strategy and program update, which was approved in
September 2006. The update includes an indicative lending
pipeline totaling about $1.6 billion over 2007-2009. The
lending program covers investments in power interconnection and transmission, subregional roads and highways,

TABLE 22 Southeast Asia: Portfolio Performance Indicators for Sovereign Lending, 2005-2006

 

 

 

 

No. of Contract Awards/Commitments Disbursements Loans at Risk

Ongoing Loans 2006 2005 2006 2005 2006 2005
Country (as of Dec 2006) ($ million) ($ million) ($ million) ($ million) (%) (%)
Cambodia 21 39.10 96.40 54.55 84.47 48 wk
Indonesia 35 780.97 914.51 861.48 1,014.99 ee eR
Lao PDR 25 56.18 87.03 76.06 78.74 8.0 a
Malaysia = = 2.15 0.70 D2: & =
Philippines 21 844.13 238.59 832.98 239.57 a5 43
Thailand a 5.30 15.62 5.20 12.93 = od
Viet Nam 37 252.14 209.80 184.07 223.66 10.8 sea
TOTAL 139 1,977.81 1,564.10 2,015.04 1,661.86 6.5 3.4

 

 

Note: Totals may not add up because of rounding.

92sustainable tourism development, and flood management
and mitigation. The technical assistance program for the
3 years totals $16.2 million and consists of 19 projects,
including 10 to prepare investment projects and 9 to support advisory, research, and coordination work. ADB also
carried out a concerted program of outreach activities,
including Mekong development forums in Singapore in
March and in Stockholm in April 2006, which provided
a venue for engaging development partners, civil society,
and the private sector on specific areas of interest in the
GMS program. An Agence Francaise de Developpement
(French Development Agency)—ADB retreat was held in
January 2006 to improve coordination and effectiveness
of the cofinanced programs of the two organizations
in the Mekong. ADB also discussed with the Australian
Agency for International Development the agency's plan
to intensify its involvement in the subregion.

The GMS program continued to promote inclusive
development through regional technical assistance projects. In recognition of the risks of human trafficking in the
subregion, it supported a regional anti-trafficking and safe
migration project in cooperation with the United Nations
Inter-Agency Project on Trafficking and several NGOs. It
supported capacity building of developing member country agencies to combat human trafficking. It worked with
NGOs to develop safe migration initiatives and community-based referral systems. It supported research on links
between loss of land, livelihoods, and unsafe migration
leading to trafficking. Under another regional initiative,
ADB cooperated with national research institutions to
carry out in-depth research on the impacts of regional
economic integration on poverty in the GMS.

A participatory poverty assessment of the Tonle Sap was done in
partnership with national research and statistics institutes in Cambodia

 

TABLE 23 Southeast Asia: Cumulative Lending and
Disbursements by Country as of the end of 2006

 

 

 

($ million)?

Country Lending Disbursements
Cambodia 912.24 619.14
Indonesia 21,513.30 16,138.83
Lao PDR 1,218.34 990.53
Malaysia 1,987.54 1,403.98
Myanmar 530.86 411.83
Philippines 9,249.03 7,116.92
Thailand 5,388.07 4,204.65
Viet Nam 4,040.56 2,139.23
Total 44,839.94 33,025.11

 

a Loan component of regional projects distributed to the countries.

FIGURE 9 Southeast Asia:

ADB Lending by Country, 2005-2006

(Sovereign and Nonsovereign)
($ million)

Cambodia
Indonesia
Lao PDR
Malaysia
Myanmar
Philippines
Thailand

Viet Nam
0 200 400 600 800
2005 m™ 2006

 

1,000

145.69

1,200

FIGURE 10 Southeast Asia: ADB Disbursements by
Country, 2005-2006 (Sovereign and Nonsovereign)

($ million)
Cambodia
Indonesia
Lao PDR
Malaysia
Myanmar
Philippines
Thailand

Viet Nam

0 200 400 600
2005 ™ 2006

800

 

1,000

1,014.99
1,025.88

1,200

93

VISV LSVAHLNOSSOUTHEAST ASIA

Indonesia—Malaysia—Thailand Growth Triangle.
The growth triangle comprises Sumatra (Indonesia), the
eight southernmost provinces of Thailand, and eight
states in Peninsular Malaysia, with a total population of
more than 65 million. The year witnessed a substantial
deepening of the relationship between ADB and the
growth triangle cooperation initiative. Following their first
summit in December 2005, the leaders of the countries
asked ADB to help them develop a 5-year road map and
action plan to rebuild dynamism and refocus the initiative.
This road map was prepared and submitted for endorsement at the second Indonesia—Malaysia—Thailand Leaders’
Summit held in Cebu, Philippines, January 2007. The sum
mit endorsed ADB's status as a development partner of
the growth triangle. The ministerial meeting in September
2006 in Selangor, Malaysia, requested ADB's assistance in
implementing the road map after its formal endorsement,
including the development of flagship cooperation projects
and the creation of financial mechanisms for increasing
public and private investments in infrastructure and other
sectors. Under a new regional technical assistance, ADB
will also help the countries improve project implementation, coordination, and monitoring, and identify sectoral
opportunities for private investment in regional projects.
Brunei Darussalam—indonesia—Malaysia-Philippines
East ASEAN Growth Area. ADB is the regional adviser

TABLE 24 Southeast Asia: Sovereign and Nonsovereign Loan Approvals by Country, 2006

 

 

 

 

 

 

($ million)
Total Date
Country OcR ADF Total Project Cost* Approved
SOVEREIGN
Cambodia
Second Power Transmission and Distribution = 20.00 20.00 52.36 4 Oct
Greater Mekong Subregion: Rehabilitation of the Railway in Cambodia = 42.00 42.00 73.00 13 Dec
Indonesia
Infrastructure Reform Sector Development Program (Subprogram |)
- Program Loan 400.00 = 400.00 400.00 21 Nov
- Project Loan = 26.50 26.50 38.76 21 Nov
Sustainable Aquaculture Development for Food Security
and Poverty Reduction - 33.30 33.30 44.52 12 Dec
Madrasah Education Development - 50.00 50.00 71.43 15 Dec
Second Development Policy Support Program (Subprogram |) 200.00 - 200.00 200.00 20 Dec
Lao PDR
Forest Plantations Development - 7.00 7.00 15-35) 16 Jan
Rural Finance Sector Development Program
- Program Loan = 7.68 7.68 7.68 17 Aug
- Project Loan od FESPA 2.32 3.36 17 Aug
Northern Region Sustainable Livelihoods through Livestock Development = 9.30 9.30 18.40 29 Sep
Basic Education Sector Development Program = 8.90 8.90 8.90 20 Dec
Philippines
Financial Market Regulation and Intermediation Program (Subprogram |) 200.00 - 200.00 200.00 6 Dec
Power Sector Development Program (Subprogram |) 450.00 = 450.00 450.00 8 Dec
Viet Nam
Support the Implementation of the Poverty Reduction Program III - 15.00 15.00 15.00 5 Oct
Forests for Livelihood Improvement in the Central Highlands Sector = 45.00 45.00 90.66 26 Oct
Central Region Small and Medium Towns Development = 53:22 53.22 66.72 17 Nov
Emergency Rehabilitation of Calamity Damage = 50.97 50.97 59.89 21 Nov
Agriculture Science and Technology = 30.00 30.00 40.00 11 Dec
Small and Medium Enterprise Development Program (Subprogram I!) = 20.00 20.00 20.00 12 Dec
Upper Secondary and Professional Teacher Development = 34.00 34.00 43.18 18 Dec
Greater Mekong Subregion Kunming-Hai Phong Transport Corridor:
Yen Vien-Lao Cai Railway Upgrading = 60.00 60.00 160.00 19 Dec
Subtotal 1,250.00 515.19 1,765.19 2,079.21
NONSOVEREIGN
Indonesia
South Sumatra to West Java Phase II Gas Pipeline 75.00 = 75.00 652.50 10 Aug
Subtotal 75.00 = 75.00 652.50
Total 1,325.00 515.19 1,840.19 2,731.71

 

-= nil
a Total project cost includes financing by ADB, governments, borrowers, beneficiaries,
equity sponsors; and local participating private companies and financial institutions.

94

and sub-borrowers; cofinancing from official, export credit, and commercial sources;to the growth area. At the countries’ second summit held
in December 2005, a road map and action plan were endorsed for subregional cooperation. ADB helped implement
the road map, in part by launching a trade and investment
database. The database is an important tool for decision
makers to monitor and quantify developments in the
area, and to prioritize investment projects. Stakeholders
can now access the database through the website of the
Brunei Darussalam—Indonesia—Malaysia—Philippines East
ASEAN Growth Area Facilitation Center. Cooperation in
easing trade also gained momentum. Senior customs, immigration, quarantine, and security officials from the area
attended the first task force meeting on customs, immigration, quarantine, and security in August 2006, organized
with technical assistance from ADB and the German Agency
for Technical Cooperation (GTZ). They agreed to accelerate
developing the area's cooperation framework for customs,
immigration, quarantine, and security to pilot-test the
implementation of ASEAN agreements on easing crossborder movement of passengers and freight across land
and maritime borders.

ADB helped prepare a draft action plan for development of the transport and energy sectors. In 2007, ADB will
continue to support the area’s infrastructure development
(transport and energy sectors); trade facilitation (harmonization of customs, immigration, quarantine, and security;
and cross-border transport facilitation); and its efforts to
improve coordination and monitoring with technical assistance approved in 2006. ADB will also explore opportunities
in cooperation with other donors in the areas of agro-industrial development and environmental management.

 

ADB's program in Cambodia for 2007-2009 includes a focus on
education

Portfolio Management

Monitoring of portfolio performance and focus on the
quality of projects were intensified. Regular portfolio
review meetings were held at the division, department,
and country levels, and the resident missions were further
empowered, including through greater delegation of loans
for administration, for more intensive and on-the-ground
attention to portfolio management issues and quicker
response time. The Southeast Asia Department's Portfolio
Management Unit within the Office of the Director
General, established in March 2005 to better coordinate
portfolio management, undertakes rigorous monitoring to
ensure that targets are met and issues are quickly resolved.
Portfolio performance in the region significantly improved
over the previous year. Disbursements amounted to $2.0
billion by the end of 2006, showing a 21% increase over
2005 while contract awards increased by 26%, reaching
almost $2 billion (Table 22). The higher disbursements and
contract awards are largely attributable to a considerable
expansion of the Philippine portfolio (Figure 10). ADB
disbursed $833.0 million in 2006, the highest annual
disbursement ever to the Philippines, including $750.0
million in program loan tranches and $83.0 million in
project loans (Table 22). This resulted in the first positive
net resource transfer of $268.5 million from ADB to the
Philippines since 1997. Performance indicators for the 21
active loans remained sound, making the Philippines portfolio one of ADB’s best, and one of the lowest proportions
of projects at risk. The percentage of loans at risk in the
region is much lower than the ADB-wide average.

COUNTRY HIGHLIGHTS
CAMBODIA

With the country’s overall incidence of poverty at 34.7%
and rural areas’ at 39.2%, ADB's overarching goal is poverty
reduction. The country strategy and program for 2005-2009
emphasizes support for broad-based economic growth, inclusive social development, and good governance. It focuses

Four crosscutting themes—
governance, private sector
development, gender, and the
environment—support the poverty
reduction objectives of Cambodia's
country strategy and program

95

Visv LSWAHLNOSSOUTHEAST ASIA

on the Tonle Sap basin, one of the poorest and most environmentally sensitive areas of Cambodia, as well as on the
subregion so that the country can benefit from the broader
opportunities provided by the GMS program. Four crosscutting themes—governance, private sector development,
gender, and the environment—are incorporated to support
the poverty reduction objectives of the country strategy and
program. ADB's program in Cambodia for 2007-2009 will
focus on agriculture and natural resources, education, finance,
small and medium-sized enterprises, rural water supply and
sanitation, and interventions in the Tonle Sap basin.

The Government has continued to adopt laws and regulations to increase private sector activity and fulfill its commitments to the World Trade Organization. The Commercial
Arbitration Law, adopted in May 2006, is expected to promote confidence in financial transactions and commercial
activities, and will help reduce lending costs. The law also
provides an alternative dispute resolution mechanism, and
ADB is helping the Government set up a national arbitration
center. ADB’s ongoing Financial Sector Cluster Program has
directly contributed to the passage of these laws. An online
secured-transaction filing system has been developed and is
ready for launch in 2007. The National Bank of Cambodia
changed its regulations in the last quarter of 2006 to allow
banks and microfinance institutions to have licenses for an
unspecified duration. The Government has also adopted a
licensing review plan that would pave the way to remove
duplicate and unnecessary licenses for businesses.

A participatory poverty assessment of the Tonle Sap was
done in partnership with national research and statistics
institutes. It included long village stays by researchers in 24
sites in 6 provinces. The participatory nature of the research
enabled detailed interactions with the poorest and most
vulnerable sections. The output consists of a wealth of data
on the extent, nature, causes, and manifestations of poverty
in the areas around the Tonle Sap. Serious issues regarding
obstacles to poverty reduction have been highlighted by
the poor themselves. There are also remarkable suggestions
for empowering the poor to enable them to participate
effectively in decision making, and for allocating resources.

Particular attention is given to
supporting Indonesia’s reform
program, and to increased
private sector participation in
financing development needs,
especially in infrastructure

96

   

ADB supports a results-based program in Indonesia that encourages
responsible environment and natural resources management

 

The outputs of the technical assistance have been presented
at a national launch workshop with high-level government
participation. These will form part of a national poverty data
base for systematic monitoring of the Government's National
Poverty Reduction Strategy.

The total assistance program reached $76.1 million
(including $42.0 million from the GMS program), with an
emphasis on easing critical infrastructure transport and
energy bottlenecks and on supporting the Government's decentralization and deconcentration initiative. ADB approved
a $7.8 million grant for the Commune Council Development
Project Phase II, a $20.0 million loan for the Second Power
Transmission and Distribution Project, and a $42.0 million
loan to rehabilitate the railways in Cambodia. ADB also
provided $6.3 million for three project preparatory technical assistance grants for agriculture and natural resources,
education, and finance; and five advisory technical assistance
grants for education; energy; industry and trade; transport
and communications; and law, economic management, and
public policy. ADB approved Cambodia’s first indicative rolling country operations business plan for 2007-2009.

INDONESIA

ADB prepared a results-based country strategy and program
for 2006-2009, which is fully aligned with the Government's
medium-term development plan. The country strategy and
program addresses a selected number of constraints on
achieving higher pro-poor, sustainable economic growth,
and improved social development. The focus is on five areas
of engagement, including infrastructure development, financial sector deepening, decentralization, faster achievementA Tentative New
Beginning in Aceh

On the tragic morning tsunami waves ripped through
the village of Meunasah Tuah in Indonesia's Aceh region,
little more than devastation was left in their wake.

“The water was as high as the coconut trees,” says
Mohamed Zein, who lost his wife and every member of
his immediate family, save one brother, to the violent
torrents on 26 December 2004.

Only 170 of the village’s 3,000 families had any
surviving members, and every last family suffered the
loss of a loved one. Not a single family survived intact.

“The greatest gift we can give to these families
who have already been through so much is simply an
opportunity to create a better and lasting future for
themselves,” says ADB Managing Director General Rajat
Nag. To this end, a key component of ADB's $382 million
assistance program for Aceh, of which $331 million is
in grant form, is helping tsunami-affected families earn
a living through farming and livestock rearing.

For Mohamed Zakir and his family, this has meant
a chance to start their lives anew. He was at sea in his
fishing boat when the tsunami struck. While his wife,
Nurjanna, miraculously survived by grabbing on to a
passing truck tire, the couple lost their only child to the
ferocious waters.

Like many men who once fished the rugged waters
off Aceh, Mohamed Zakir has lost his love for life at

of the Millennium Development Goals, and environment
and natural resources management. Particular attention
is given to supporting the Government's reform program,
and to increased private sector participation in financing the
country’s development needs, especially in infrastructure.
ADB, in coordination with other development partners,
helped the Government formulate policy reforms concerning the investment climate, infrastructure development, and
financial sector deepening. The Government announced
three policy packages in these areas. The infrastructure
policy package sets out reform goals in nine infrastructure
sectors, supplemented by measures to boost investment.

sea. Under this ADB-supported initiative, impoverished
families receive training and support so they can earn a
dependable living raising livestock.

In Meunasah Tuah, 200 goats were divided among
25 of the community's neediest families for them to
breed and sell. Goat curry is one of Aceh’s most popular
dishes, and there is never a shortage of demand at local
markets, so families can depend on a steady source of
income. The fact that Mohamed Zakir has been able to
change his trade from fishing to goat breeding has also
helped allay the worries of his wife, who says she never
wants her husband or their newborn son to ever have
to rely on the ocean for survival.

Although nothing can take away the pain Mohamed
and Nurjanna continue to endure, the recent addition
to the family is a source of new joy, and they take
comfort in the fact that they now have the resources
they need to provide for their son.

    

Wreckage after the tsunami

The investment climate policy package supports broadranging reforms on tax, customs, investment law, and labor.
The financial sector reform package aims to strengthen the
banking and nonbanking sectors and diversify sources of
financial intermediation. A small and medium-sized enterprise reform package is being prepared.

ADB loan approvals reached $784.8 million, with emphasis on supporting the Government's reform program to
strengthen macroeconomic management, governance, and
the investment climate, and to accelerate infrastructure development. This includes a $75.0 million nonsovereign public
sector loan and $125.0 million in commercial loans under

97

VISV LSVAHLNOSSOUTHEAST ASIA

ADB's B-loan program for the South Sumatra to West Java
Phase II Gas Pipeline Project. ADB also provided $7.1 million
for seven technical assistance projects. In November 2006,
ADB approved an Infrastructure Reform Sector Development
Program worth $400.0 million, to improve the investment
climate and promote infrastructure development. As part
of this program, ADB provided an investment loan of $26.5
million—supplemented by a $7.6 million cofinancing grant
from the Government of the Netherlands—to establish the
Infrastructure Project Development Facility.

Under its medium-term development plan for 2005-2009,
Indonesia aims to boost sustainable economic growth to 7%.
ADB provided $200 million for the second Development Policy
Support Program in conjunction with World Bank assistance
of $600 million, and additional proposed assistance from the
Government of Japan. The assistance focuses on improving
the investment climate and strengthening public financial
management to improve the use of fiscal resources.

ADB also approved a $50 million loan for public and
private madrasahs at the primary, junior, and secondary
levels in 27 poor districts in 3 provinces. The project will
enable the madrasahs to meet national education standards for personnel, facilities, and teaching-learning materials; and give 120,000 students access to education.

Another loan for $33.3 million supports a project to
develop small-scale and low-cost aquaculture production
systems that are economically sound and environmentally
friendly. The project will also increase the incomes and improve the health of 14,000 poor fish farmers by enhancing
aquaculture production, supply, and productivity.

In response to the earthquake that hit Yogyakarta and
Central Java in May 2006, ADB, together with other development partners, took the lead in helping the Government
prepare the damage and loss assessment.

LAO PEOPLE’S DEMOCRATIC
REPUBLIC

 

The Lao PDR recorded robust GDP growth estimated at
7.3%, attributable to a broader base of economic activities.
Increasingly resilient to external shocks, the country was able
to absorb the recent rise in global oil prices without resorting
to government subsidy or suffering serious inflation. In June

ADB approved a new country
strategy and program for the Lao
PDR, which reflects lessons from
ADB's experience in the country

98

 

ADB supports basic education in the Lao PDR

2006, the Government approved its Sixth National SocioEconomic Development Plan 2006-2010, which includes a
strategy for poverty reduction and sustainable development.

In October 2006, ADB approved a new country
strategy and program, which reflects lessons from ADB's
experience in the country. It introduces greater sector
selectivity and focus, and proposes a move toward a
programmatic approach. ADF lending and grants to
the Lao PDR amounted to $62.2 million. Disbursement
amounted to $76.1 million. ADB approved a $10.0 million
sovereign public sector loan for the Rural Finance Sector
Development Program, a $9.3 million sovereign sector loan
for the Northern Region Sustainable Livelihoods through
Livestock Development Project, a $7.0 million loan and
$3.0 million grant for the Forest Plantations Development
Project, and an $8.9 million loan and $12.7 million grant
for the Basic Education Sector Development Program. ADB
also provided eight technical assistance grants amounting to $4.6 million for project preparation and capacity
development in priority areas.

MALAYSIA

Malaysia is an important player in ADB's regional activities,
including the Brunei Darussalam—Indonesia—Malaysia—
Philippines East ASEAN Growth Area and Indonesia—
Malaysia—Thailand Growth Triangle programs. ADB
provided advisory technical assistance worth $150,000 for
the Support of Improved Economic Modeling. This assistance aims to help the Ministry of Finance carry out its core
functions more effectively by developing a macroeconomicmodel that will allow for improved consistency and transparency in planning and policy making. ADB also conducted
a policy dialogue with Malaysia.

MYANMAR

ADB continued to monitor economic development and
will formulate an operational strategy when appropriate.
ADB approved the last loan projects in 1986 and the last
technical assistance projects in 1987.

PHILIPPINES

The economy has grown steadily in the past 2 years. GDP
grew at 5.4% because of strong services performance and
the sustained momentum of manufacturing. Record levels
of remittances ($12.8 billion) from overseas workers have
allowed higher household spending. Increased merchandise exports have also driven growth.

Fiscal consolidation has been moving well with better tax
collection and tighter government spending. The aggressive
tax reform program, begun in 2005, produced significant
results. Gains in fiscal consolidation keep the Government
on track for achieving its target of a balanced budget by
2008. The significance of the success with fiscal consolidation extends well beyond contributing to macroeconomic
stability. It has the potential to be the tipping point that
moves the Philippines onto a path of accelerated growth
performance in the medium term. Already, the improved
fiscal situation has given space for new ADB program loans
in the power and finance sectors; it has also provided the
headroom for the Government to expand spending in infrastructure and social expenditure needed by the poor.

The country strategy and program (2005-2007) is
designed to support high-impact projects. Key features
include a strategic focus on the most urgent development
constraints, including fiscal consolidation, an improved
investment climate, and achieving the Millennium
Development Goals; alignment of ADB’s program with
government strategy and priorities; reducing transaction
costs through harmonization with domestic systems and
activities of other development partners; and working
within a results framework emphasizing development
impacts and outcomes. Implementation of reforms, especially macroeconomic reforms, has improved, as recent
ADB-supported policy-based operations have indicated.

ADB approved two program loans for power and finance
totaling $650.0 million, the highest annual lending since
1998. In addition, ADB approved five technical assistance

projects (including one supplementary) for $4.7 million, and
three investment grants, funded by the Government of Japan,
for $4.4 million. The latter included support for the Southern
Leyte landslide disaster under a $3 million investment grant
financed by the Japan Fund for Poverty Reduction. ADB also
reprogrammed $570,000 from approved but unused technical
assistance grants for disaster-related assistance to finance the
rehabilitation work following the landslide in Southern Leyte
in early 2006 and in the Mayon area after a typhoon, and for
country-wide long-term disaster preparedness.

THAILAND

The resident mission’s first full year of operations was marked
by significant strengthening of the collaboration between the
Government and ADB as reflected in an expanded knowledge-sharing program and continued policy dialogue on
addressing the development challenges and opportunities
that Thailand faces as a middle-income country.

Several major technical assistance projects were successfully completed in 2006, including the preparation of
a long-term development plan for three tsunami-affected
provinces, the design of a comprehensive pension system,
and the analysis of options for integrating Bangkok's
urban mass transit system and maximizing private sector
participation in the construction and operation of an expanded network. ADB approved four technical assistance
grants (including one supplementary), amounting to
$1.5 million. One of these will support the implementation of a newly approved capital market development plan
while another will strengthen the capacity of Thailand's
Neighbouring Countries Economic Development Cooperation
Agency to become a lead government donor agency. ADB also
maintained its prominent role in the domestic capital market
with the issuance of a second baht bond in the amount of
B6.50 billion. No loans were provided, but discussions to develop a business pipeline for both sovereign and nonsovereign
lending progressed well during the year.

In the context of joint efforts to prepare a new country
partnership strategy, consultations with the Government
have reconfirmed that there is scope for an expanded,
yet tightly focused, role for ADB in Thailand. Policy dialogue has centered on building a partnership with ADB
that helps strengthen Thailand’s competitiveness in the
global economy by removing key constraints on greater
productivity and creating a more conducive environment
for private sector investment. At the national level, the
Government seeks ADB's support in core strategic areas,
such as structuring private-public sector partnerships for

99

VISV LSVAHLNOSSOUTHEAST ASIA

Thailand desires to increase its
role, capacity, and effectiveness
as a regional donor and global
development partner

complex, large-scale infrastructure projects; addressing
key structural and regulatory reforms to further develop
the domestic capital market; and introducing innovative
approaches and technologies for improving environmental
management and promoting energy efficiency initiatives.

As a middle-income country, Thailand desires to
increase its role, capacity, and effectiveness as a regional
donor and global development partner. ADB brings considerable added value to the partnership by sharing its extensive experience and expertise in supporting subregional
cooperation programs and regional economic integration.
At the regional level of partnership, Thailand and ADB
will work together to cofinance development projects in
neighboring countries, facilitate increased subregional
trade and investment, and contribute to the development of more efficient and liquid bond markets in Asia.
Continued progress on these initiatives will also serve to
strengthen the role of the resident mission as a hub for
ADB's operations in the GMS and in the region.

VIET NAM

The year was a period of transition with the approval of
the new Five-Year Socio-Economic Development Plan
2006-2010. Viet Nam was accepted as the 150th member of
the World Trade Organization. ADB prepared its first resultsbased country strategy and program for 2007-2010 for Viet
Nam in full alignment with the development plan. To help
achieve the development plan’s targets, the country strategy
and program focuses its operations on pro-poor, business-led
economic growth; social equity and balanced development;
and proper environmental protection and management.

The country strategy and program emphasizes promotion of good governance and anticorruption efforts in all
operations, with appropriate multifaceted support for
regional cooperation. The country strategy and program
also focuses more on creating an enabling environment for
pro-poor private sector operations and on improving links
between private and public sector operations.

ADB approved $308.2 million in loans and $32.5 million
in grants, including a GMS loan of $60.0 million for improving railways linking Ha Noi with Lao Cai at the border with the
People’s Republic of China, and a grant of $20.0 million for

100

HIV/AIDS prevention. ADB also approved a loan of $51.0 million for Emergency Rehabilitation of Calamity Damages for
Viet Nam. ADB approved 15 technical assistance projects
(including 2 supplementary) for $16.5 million. The HIV/AIDS
Prevention among Youth Project aims to stop the spread
of the disease in 15 provinces through an integrated plan
involving mass media and community campaigns. It will be
complemented by a comprehensive program of activities
and services to bring about widespread behavior changes
among young people.

ADB continued to support the Government by creating
a favorable private sector environment through a program
loan of $20.0 million supporting small and medium-sized
enterprise development and a loan of $30.0 million
supporting the development of agriculture science and
technology. ADB supported social inclusiveness through
an ADF loan of $34.0 million to upper secondary and
professional teacher development, a loan of $45.0 million for Forests for Livelihood Improvement in the Central
Highlands, and a loan of $53.2 million for Central Region
Small and Medium Towns Development. The technical assistance program to help develop a lending program and
build capacity is highlighted by a high degree of cofinancing: every dollar under ADB technical assistance financing
is matched by another dollar from cofinanciers.

ADB actively participated in initiatives of the five-bank
group of ADB, African Development Bank, Kreditanstalt
fiir Wiederaufbau (KfW), Japan Bank for International
Cooperation, and the World Bank. The group helped implement the Hanoi Core Statement by actively participating in the
thematic groups, particularly those dealing with procurement
and environmental and social safeguards. The banks also
helped revise regulations to ensure efficiency in investments
financed by official development assistance, and contributed
considerably to drafting the procurement law and its implementation guidelines, and to improving project management
unit structures, their transparency, and accountability to
support the Government's anticorruption efforts.

Under the technical assistance’s results-based monitoring of poverty and growth, ADB has worked closely with
the Government and other donors to help develop the
monitoring and evaluation framework for the new FiveYear Socio-Economic Development Plan (2006-2010).

ADB prepared its first results-based
country strategy and program for

2007-2010 for Viet Nam in full
alignment with the development planStrengthening
Good Governance
in Viet Nam

Good governance is one of the strategic thrusts of
ADB operations in Viet Nam. It is also a priority for the
Government. The 10th Party Congress in April 2006
stressed the urgent need to strengthen governance to
ensure that public resources are used more effectively
and efficiently, and minimize their misuse; and to
control corruption. The conference emphasized that
government officials must be more accountable.

Although new laws have considerably strengthened
regulatory and institutional frameworks to deal with
corruption, in July 2006 Viet Nam was ranked 102
out of 144 in Transparency International's corruption
perception index. Clearly, much remains to be done and
ADB is helping Viet Nam in its anticorruption efforts.

Recognizing the importance of continued
administrative reform to achieve economic growth
and reduce poverty, Prime Minister Nguyen Tan
Dung indicated at the last Cabinet meeting of 2006
(26-27 December) that strengthening administrative
reforms, sustaining economic growth, and
continuing the fight against corruption will be the
Government's key tasks for 2007.

ADB has helped the Government draft key
legislation and implementing regulations, including an
anticorruption law that the National Assembly passed in
2006. With ADB support, a civil service bill is now being
drafted to go before the National Assembly in 2007.

ADB's current assistance builds on the support it
has lent Viet Nam in this sector since January 2003,
when ADB approved a program loan supporting
the implementation of the Government's Public
Administration Reform Master Program (2001-2010).

The program aims to build a professional, effective, and
efficient public administration system.

Viet Nam also endorsed the regional Anti-Corruption
Action Plan that ADB and the Organisation for
Economic Co-operation and Development initiated.

The program comprises institutional reform,
organizational reform, civil service reform, salary
reform, improvement of the quality of civil servants by
training and retraining, public financial management,
and modernization of public administration, including
computerization of state administration.

ADB has supported the program mainly by training
and retraining public officials, by helping develop more
effective training modules to meet skill needs, and by
supporting e-government initiatives.

 

 

The program includes computerization of state administration

101

VISV LSVAHLNOSINTERNAL
INITIATIVES

ADB's human resources management supported its reform agenda, particularly the aim of making the institution more results-focused. A dual career
path was introduced to strengthen strategic leadership in key technical areas.
ADB completed an enhanced separation program that responds to a shift in
sector focus under the second medium-term strategy (2006-2008).

Knowledge management efforts were strengthened with an agreement
to increase coordination among the four knowledge-focused departments
and the mainstreaming of knowledge management into ADB’s operations.

Information technology (IT) systems were improved and IT security
strengthened. A new IT product was launched to enhance knowledge
sharing in ADB and with external partners: the C-Cube is designed to allow easier information sharing within communities of practice. Financial
control mechanisms were strengthened.

Through seminars and workshops, ADB raised awareness of, and compliance with, its anticorruption policy and procedures.

More efficient procedures and processes increased workplace safety and
security, improved administrative services, and led to substantial savings.

HUMAN RESOURCES

The human resources strategy is a key element of ADB's reform agenda.
The strategy aims to establish a merit-based human resources management system that supports ADB's vision and objectives. It commits ADB
to improving the effectiveness of its human capital, to introducing a new
performance management and rewards system, and to improving leadership throughout ADB.

ADB improved the quality and timeliness of recruitment and selection
by introducing several changes, including a two-panel structured interview
process for external candidates, results-based job descriptions, and interview
skills training. Further improvements to the recruitment and selection process
will be implemented.

103To help its senior staff to take on more demanding roles, ADB provided learning and development support on managerial and leadership skills

The shift in sector focus under the second medium-term
strategy requires an adjustment in the staff skills mix. ADB
completed an enhanced separation program, involving 32
professional and 85 local staff members. Furthermore, 30
positions were sequestered and strategically reallocated
to operations departments and other priority areas. ADB
prepared to launch a strategic recruitment initiative to fill
the gaps in its talent and skills.

The second cycle of the new performance management system was implemented to continue the effort to
promote a results-oriented work culture. Implementation
proved to be managerially demanding. Revisions are under
way to support a more merit-based culture.

ADB reviewed its learning and development program
to identify better ways to meet its business needs. To enable its managerial leaders to take on more demanding
roles, ADB provided learning and development support on
managerial and leadership skills.

ADB has established a systematic talent management
process for identifying potential leadership and managing
their development. An assessment and development center
will be established in 2007 to provide the foundation for
the developmental growth of ADB’s potential managerial
leaders.

A nonmanagerial dual career path was introduced
to provide leadership in strategic technical areas and to
respond to the need to professionally reward and retain

104

ADB's highly valued technical talent. Initiatives to support
an inclusive environment were implemented.

During the first 2 years of the strategy’s implementation,
ADB has carried out a significant number of activities to
improve the effectiveness of its human capital and introduce
a new performance management and rewards system.
Strengthening of leadership and accountability throughout
ADB to initiate and sustain the culture change is an ongoing
process and challenge that will require more time. The implementation of most of the strategy’s action plans or initiatives
will be completed or under progress by the end of 2007 as
planned. ADB will continue to implement several ongoing
initiatives beyond 2007 to achieve the strategy’s objectives.

Staffing
At the end of 2006, ADB's staff totaled 2,405 from 54
of its 66 member countries: 5 members of Management,

Thirty positions were sequestered
and strategically reallocated

to operations departments

and other priority areas. ADB
prepared to launch a strategic
recruitment initiative to fill the
gaps in its talent and skillsA modest real budget growth
in 2007 ensures adequate
funding for high-priority work
programs and initiatives

and 856 professional and 1,544 local staff members,
of whom 465 or about 19.3% are in field offices. There
were 2 appointments and 1 departure in Management,
70 appointments and 97 departures of professional staff
members, while 122 local staff members joined ADB and
147 left. The share of women professional staff members
has remained constant at 29%.

COMPENSATION

Consistent with ADB’s market-based compensation
system, the Board approved a 4.4% increase in the salary
budget for 2007 for professional staff, 3.5% of which will
be used for performance-related salary increases and the
balance for performance and team bonuses. The Board
also approved a weighted average increase of 9.2% for
national officers and administrative staff at headquarters
for 2007. An overall weighted average increase of 13.8%
for national officers and administrative staff in 25 field
offices will be implemented in 2007.

The Board approved a new pension plan effective
1 October 2006 for staff hired from this date onward.
The new plan is similar to the current one but provides
fewer ADB-guaranteed benefits and more staff-directed
contributions. The new scheme will have a lower pension accrual rate and will be noncontributory for staff participants,
with an option to contribute to the discretionary benefit
scheme to top up their staff retirement plan benefits.

Changes were made to the Group Medical Insurance
Plan for pensioners. The reimbursement rate was reduced
from 80% to 75%, and the stop-loss benefit was reintroduced but at slightly higher limits with no ADB subsidy.
Cost-effective improvements to the plan were introduced,
such as more advantageous reimbursement rates for generic drugs and the inclusion of phytomedicines, additional
services for physiotherapy and ultrasound, and expansion
of the vaccination program for staff and dependents at
the ADB Medical Center.

Benefits administration was streamlined by introducing more self-service facilities—the certification request
system, benefits self-service, staff loan system, and home
country travel system—which allow easier online access
by staff to their personal benefits information. The ADB

alumni portal was expanded from an e-mail forwarding
service for former ADB staff to an information portal for
pensioners on their retirement and insurance benefits.

INTERNAL ADMINISTRATIVE
EXPENSES

Internal administrative expenses totaled $299.4 million,
with savings amounting to $13.5 million against the original
budget of $312.9 million. Overall savings were primarily attributed to lower-than-expected staff-related costs because
of lower staff years resulting from the implementation of
enhanced separation program; and lower-than-anticipated
relocation costs, business travel, and administrative expenses.
About $1.4 million was transferred from the general contingency to the offices of the directors ($0.8 million) and the
Operations Evaluation Department ($0.6 million) to meet
increase in staff related costs.

For 2007, the net internal administrative expenses budget is $332.9 million. The increase over the 2006 budget
reflects a price growth of 5.2% and a volume growth of
1.2%. An estimated $4.1 million is expected to be recoverable from administrating trust funds of multilateral and
bilateral institutions.

A modest real budget growth in 2007 ensures
adequate funding for high-priority work programs and
initiatives, including aligning priorities with the second
medium-term strategy through country partnership and
regional cooperation strategies; strengthening support to
portfolio management, including continued delegation
of projects and country portfolio management to resident
missions; ensuring quality at entry of new projects; supporting the increasing demand for private sector operations in ADB's developing member countries; strengthening risk management, especially credit risk management;
and improving ADB's catalytic role through financing
partnerships that mobilize resource commitments from
cofinanciers to ADB's developing member countries.

The 2007 budget also includes an annual capital
budget of $3.7 million, mainly to fund cyclical capital
expenditures for headquarters facilities and information
technology equipment, and to meet the replacement and
acquisition requirements of field offices.

The Board approved a new pension
plan effective 1 October 2006 for
staff hired from this date onward

105INITIATIVES

ADMINISTRATIVE SERVICES

The strategic work program of the Office of Administrative
Services focused on improving workplace safety and security and delivering responsive, high-quality administrative
services across ADB.

The office continued its programs to improve and
streamline business processes. A more efficient monitoring and control mechanism for mailing documents generated annual savings of about $300,000. ADB reduced
the number of computer printers, standardized the use
of toner, and enhanced copiers’ capability, leading to annual savings of $80,000. Outsourcing opportunities were
identified, leading to further savings in staff resources.
The continued implementation of the International
Organization for Standardization (ISO) objectives and
programs contributed to savings in electricity, water, and
paper consumption, amounting to $117,000.

KNOWLEDGE MANAGEMENT

In the second year of the implementation of the knowledge management framework, ADB continued to mainstream knowledge management into its operations while
strengthening the coordination of the four departments
that focus specifically on this issue.

In November 2006, ADB launched a knowledge management tool that enables staff to share and disseminate

 

Staff discuss the challenges of improving access to ADB documents

information gathered or needed in project or working
groups. C-Cube can also be used for secure knowledge
sharing with external stakeholders. The external community of practice for managing for development results used
C-Cube technology to discuss with developing member
country government officials issues related to managing

ADB continued to mainstream
knowledge management into its
operations while strengthening

the coordination of the four
departments that focus on this issue

 

Many staff members upgraded their technical skills through extensive training programs

106for development results, good practices, and lessons
learned. C-Cube allows users to chat and hold virtual conferences or meetings. Users can access files or documents
from anywhere, anytime; hold online discussions; monitor
the task performance of other group members; plan or
schedule meetings; and search for information.

The four knowledge departments—Asian Development
Bank Institute, Economics and Research Department,
Office of Regional Economic Integration, and Regional
and Sustainable Development Department—established
arrangements to strengthen coordination among themselves to avoid duplication and improve synergies in their
knowledge management work. The departments agreed
to examine existing quality control processes and to jointly
and regularly prepare major publications, preferably one
publicationa year. The first one—Infrastructure for Regional
Cooperation in Asia—slated for completion in 2008, will
be led by the Asian Development Bank Institute.

Four other ADB departments established knowledge
management units, and all departments appointed knowledge management coordinators. These arrangements
were designed to promote best practices and mainstream
knowledge management into ADB's operations.

To disseminate knowledge in developing member
countries, ADB established five regional knowledge hubs
in partnership with government and nongovernment
development partners in key areas of operational relevance:
clean energy at The Energy and Resources Institute (India);
the 3Rs—reduce, reuse, recycle—at the Asian Institute of
Technology (Thailand), with support from the United Nations
Environment Programme Regional Resource Centre for Asia
and the Pacific; public finance at the Center for Public Finance
and Regional Economic Cooperation at the Asian Institute
of Management (Philippines); climate change at Tsinghua
University (People’s Republic of China); and public-private
partnership in infrastructure at the Emerging Markets Forum
(Singapore).

The e-Asia and Knowledge Partnership Fund, set up
with a $20 million contribution from the Government
of the Republic of Korea, will also support knowledge
management in the Asia and Pacific region. The fund,
administered by ADB, will, among other things, help
developing member countries reduce the digital gap and
share knowledge and experience.

Asian Development Bank Institute (ADBI). The
mission of the Tokyo-based ADBI is to identify effective
development strategies and improve the capacity of
development agencies and organizations in ADB's developing member countries. ADBI retained its focus on its

 

four priority theme areas of poverty reduction, regional
cooperation, governance, and private sector development,
choosing infrastructure for regional cooperation as an area
of specialization. ADBI responds to stakeholders’ requests
for assistance in research, capacity building, and training.

Among the books the ADB! published were Poverty
Strategies in Asia and Policies and Institutions for Advancing
Regional Development: The Philippines in Comparative
Asian Context. It also released studies on cross-border
infrastructure, contract farming, market facilitation for
the poor, and renminbi revaluation. Work on the private
sector and governance included a study on comparative
corporate governance in the banking sector.

ADBI actively collaborates with the World Bank, InterAmerican Development Bank, UN agencies, and other
international organizations and development partners on
research and training (e.g., in conducting distance-blended learning courses). Its capacity-building and training
program focused on strengthening policy implementation
and management capacity for development programs under the four priority themes. ADB! conducted 20 training
courses, trained more than 1,600 participants, produced
8 workshop reports, 68 CD-ROMs, and, for the first time,
offered 3 distance learning courses.

ADBI was actively involved in strengthening the knowledge management framework with ADB’s knowledge
departments. As part of knowledge management activities,
about 90 independent expert reviews of developmentoriented CD-ROMs have been posted on ADBI's website. The
website received international recognition with an honorable
mention in the inaugural Web for Development awards.

Economics and Research Department. The department’s main role is to conduct policy research and disseminate the outputs, both in ADB and in the Asia and Pacific
region. The department launched the Portal for Statistics
Resources, a one-stop service on statistics available to all
ADB staff. It also coordinated the international comparison
program for the Asia and Pacific region. The program is a
system for comparing GDP and its components, converted
into a single currency using purchasing power parities,

ADBI's capacity-building and

training program focused on
strengthening policy implementation
and management capacity for
development programs under

the four priority themes

107INTERNAL

INITIATIVES

eliminating the shortcomings of using market exchange
rates. Regular publications included the Asian Development
Outlook and its update, with assessments of the economic
outlook for the region as well as discussions of topical issues
such as the impact on the region's economies of rising oil
and commodity prices, the effect of the end of quotas on
Asia's textile and clothing industries, and the challenges and
opportunities created by free trade agreements.

Office of Regional Economic Integration. The
office is ADB’s focal point for knowledge management
related to regional cooperation and integration, a key
priority under the second medium-term strategy. The office’s knowledge products helped promote regional policy
dialogue on cooperation and integration. It published
six working papers on regional economic integration as
well as two issues each of its regular publications, the
Asia Economic Monitor and the Asia Bond Monitor. The
office disseminated information and analyses through its
two websites: the Asia Regional Integration Center and
AsiaBondsOnline. It helped build capacity in developing
member countries through a series of seminars.

Regional and Sustainable Development Department. The department is responsible for knowledge
management across ADB and coordination of regional
public goods. It supports quality and efficiency in all ADB
operations. It focuses on sector and thematic issues and has
a strong operational orientation. The department's knowledge management center coordinated the discussions of
the four knowledge departments during 2006. As such,

Business processes were improved and streamlined

108

it helped reach agreement on closer cooperation between
these departments, mainly by coordinating work programs
and holding regular meetings of department heads.

INFORMATION SYSTEMS AND
TECHNOLOGY

The Office of Information Systems and Technology
continued to streamline operations, respond to technology
changes and user demands, and accelerate the implementation of the information systems and technology strategy
capital expenditure program. The new Technology Division
within the office introduced an enterprise architecture road
map to guide technology decisions for the organization.

The Information Technology (IT) Committee approved 12
principles to align ADB's IT goals with its overall operations.
Financial control mechanisms were strengthened in line with
the internationally recognized COBIT (control objectives for
information and related technology) framework.

The implementation of IT rules and regulations
received Management approval and formed the basis for
high-level data and information security. Security simulations, penetration tests, and audit reviews performed
on business systems and equipment substantiate the
progressive and comprehensive strengthening of information and communications systems security. Intensified
awareness of information security risks and password
protection were communicated through road shows to
further improve IT security throughout ADB.Staff skills in new technologies
were upgraded through
extensive training programs

In the area of knowledge management, key projects
completed under information systems and_ technology strategy include a collaborative software solution
for communities of practice and the initial release from
the document repository system. The document repository is envisioned as the sole, common, easily accessible
repository for key ADB documents. It features a search and
retrieval facility as well as an enterprise-wide classification
structure used to identify, track, and retrieve information.
Four departments have started using the repository.

The office adopted a proactive relationship with its
client departments to provide better and higher levels of
service. A performance management system using the balanced scorecard was initiated to improve internal performance and accountability. Under the e-mail server upgrade
project, users benefited from increased e-mail capacity,
additional firewall protection, and printer optimization.

To ensure better alignment between business and IT,
the office embarked on a business improvement program
that is expected to eliminate redundancies in processes,
data entry, and reporting. The engagement model introduced allows users to be directly involved with the
development and execution of their IT needs.

Staff skills in new technologies and specialized areas
such as COBIT, performance management scorecard, IT
service, and project management were upgraded through
extensive training programs.

AUDIT AND INTEGRITY

The Office of the Auditor General, through its Financial,
Administrative and Information Systems Division, conducted independent appraisals of ADB's operations. These
appraisals have helped strengthen internal controls and
efficiencies in the financial, operational, and IT areas.
Through its Integrity Division, the office addressed alleged incidents of corruption and fraud in ADB activities,
conducted staff workshops, initiated a series of regional
anticorruption seminars, and worked with national audit
institutions of developing member countries in carrying
out project procurement-related audits. These activities
have helped increase staff's as well as borrowers’ aware
ness and compliance with the anticorruption policy and
procedures, and enhanced their capacity to detect and
prevent fraud and corruption.

The Financial, Administrative and Information Systems
Division completed 25 audits in 2006, including audits of
internally managed investments, operations of a resident
mission, technical assistance trust or grant funds, and
several consultant contracts. IT reviews covered data security of ADB’s network environment, selected databases
and operating systems, and disaster recovery testing of
critical systems. The office also monitored the progress of
outstanding recommendations and verified that corrective
actions have been undertaken.

ADB barred 37 firms and 31 individuals in 2006 as a

result of corruption investigations, making a total of 311
irms and individuals currently ineligible to participate
in ADB-financed activities. The Integrity Division, which
enforces ADB's anticorruption policy, received 171 complaints during the year.
The Integrity Division also conducted five project
procurement-related audits to reduce weaknesses that
may allow fraud, corruption, or abuse in ADB-financed
projects. Supreme audit institutions of borrower countries
participated in some of these audits, reinforcing ADB's
ability to share this audit knowledge and support capacity
development.

The Integrity Division further contributed to a Joint
nternational Financial Institutions Anticorruption Task
Force comprising seven multilateral development banks
and international financial institutions. As a result, ADB
approved harmonized definitions of fraud and corruption
with those of the other international financial institutions

 

and agreed on common principles and guidelines for
investigation.

The Integrity Division's 2006 Annual Report is at:
www.adb.org/Documents/Reports/Anticorruption/OAGAAnnual-Report-2006.pdf.

ADB barred 37 firms and

31 individuals in 2006 as a result of
corruption investigations, making
a total of 311 firms and individuals
currently ineligible to participate

in ADB-financed activities

109)APPENDIXES

112
113

113

114
116
116
117
118
119
120
121

Appendix 1: Members, Capital Stock, and Voting Power

Appendix 2: Resolutions of the Board of Governors
Adopted in 2006

Appendix 3: Selected Policy, Strategy, and Financial Papers
Discussed by the Board in 2006

Appendix 4: Board of Governors

Appendix 5: Board of Directors and Voting Groups

Appendix 6: Committees of the Board of Directors

Appendix 7: ADB Institute Advisory Council

Appendix 8: Organizational Structure

Appendix 9: Former ADB Presidents and Vice Presidents

Appendix 10: Summary of Budget for 2007

Appendix 11: Professional Staff Representation of ADB MembersAPPENDIXES

Appendix 1

Members, Capital Stock, and Voting Power
(as of 31 December 2006)

 

 

 

 

 

 

Year Subscribed Voting Year Subscribed Voting
Member of Capital’ Power? Member of Capital’ Power”
Membership (% of total) (% of total) Membership (% of total) —(% of total)
REGIONAL NONREGIONAL
Afghanistan 1966 0.034 0.330 Austria 1966 0.341 0.576
Armenia 2005 0.299 0.542 Belgium 1966 0.341 0.576
Australia 1966 5.793 4.937 Canada 1966 5.237 4.493
Azerbaijan 1999 0.445 0.659 Denmark 1966 0.341 0.576
Bangladesh 1973 1.022 1.121 Finland 1966 0.341 0.576
Bhutan 1982 0.006 0.308 France 1970 2.330 2.167
Brunei Darussalam 2006 0.353 0.585 Germany 1966 4.331 3.768
Cambodia 1966 0.050 0.343 Italy 1966 1.809 e751
China, People’s Republic of 1986 6.451 5.464 Ireland 2006 0.341 0.576
Cook Islands 1976 0.003 0.305 Luxembourg 2003 0.341 0.576
Fiji Islands 1970 0.068 0.357 The Netherlands 1966 1.027 1.125
Hong Kong, China 1969 0.545 0.739 Norway 1966 0.341 0.576
India 1966 6.338 5.374 Portugal 2002 0.341 0.576
Indonesia 1966 5.452 4.665 Spain 1986 0.341 0.576
Japan 1966 15.625 12.803 Sweden 1966 0.341 0.576
Kazakhstan 1994 0.807 0.949 Switzerland 1967 0.584 0.770
Kiribati 1974 0.004 0.306 Turkey 1991 0.341 0.576
Korea, Republic of 1966 5.043 4.338 United Kingdom 1966 2.045 1.939
Kyrgyz Republic 1994 0.299 0.543 United States 1966 15.625 12.803
a9. Feoples Subtotal Nonregional 36.735 35.146
Democratic Republic 1966 0.014 0.314
Malaya 1966 2726 DARA Total 100.000 100.000
Maldives 1978 0.004 0.306 Note: Numbers may not add up because of rounding, For other details, see tables on
Marshall Islands 1990 0.003 0.305 pages 36 and 37, Volume 2.
Micronesia,
Federated States of 1990 0.004 0.306 a Subscribed capital refers to a member's subscription to shares of the capital stock
of ADB.
Mongolia 1994 CONS Oats b The total voting power of each member consists of the sum of its basic votes and
Myanmar 1973 0.545 0.739 proportional votes. The basic votes of each member consist of such number of votes.
Nauru 1901 0.004 0.306 as results from the equal distribution among all members of 20% of the aggregate
sum of the basic votes and proportional votes of all members. The number of
Nepal 1966 0.147 0.421 proportional votes of each member is equal to the number of shares of the capital
New Zealand 1966 1.538 1.533 stock of ADB held by that member.
Pakistan 1966 2.181 2.048
Palau 2003 0.003 0.306
Papua New Guinea 1971 0.094 0.378
Philippines 1966 2.385 2.211
Samoa 1966 0.003 0.306
Singapore 1966 0.341 0.576
Solomon Islands 1973 0.007 0.308
Sri Lanka 1966 0.581 0.768
Taipei,China 1966 1.090 1.175
Tajikistan 1998 0.287 0.532
Thailand 1966 1.363 1.393
Timor-Leste 2002 0.010 0.311
Tonga 1972 0.004 0.306
Turkmenistan 2000 0.253 0.506
Tuvalu 1993 0.001 0.304
Uzbekistan 1995 0.674 0.843
Vanuatu 1981 0.007 0.308
Viet Nam 1966 0.342 0.576
Subtotal Regional 63.265 64.854,

 

112Appendix 2

Resolutions of the Board of Governors Adopted in 2006

 

 

 

Resolution No. Subject Date Adopted
313 Amendment to Section 7(B)(a) of the By-Laws 17 January
314 Retirement Benefits for President 17 January
315 Membership of Ireland and Increase in Authorized Capital Stock 2 April
316 Membership of Brunei Darussalam and Increase in Authorized Capital Stock 16 April
317 Financial Statements and Independent Auditors’ Reports 6 May
318 Allocation of Net Income 6 May
319 Earmarking of Ordinary Capital Resources Surplus for Reconstruction of Yogyakarta

and Central Java Provinces 3 July

320 Membership of Georgia and Increase in Authorized Capital Stock 25 August
321 Election of President 22 September
322 Decisions Relating to Section 5 of the By-Laws 11 November
323 Amendment to Section 7(B)(a) of the By-Laws 11 November

Appendix 3

Selected Policy, Strategy, and Financial Papers Discussed by the Board in 2006

 

Board Discussion Date

 

Revising the Procurement Guidelines

Use of Consultants by ADB and its Borrowers
Medium-Term Strategy Il (2006-2008)
Review of ADB's Loan Charges and Allocation of 2005 Net Income

ADB's Financing Partnership Strategy

Regional Cooperation and Integration

Enhancing ADB Support to Middle-Income Countries and Borrowers from OCR

Review of ADB's Credit Enhancement Operations

Asset and Liability Management Policy of ADB

Work Program and Budget Framework 2007-2009
Enhancements for ADB’s Loan and Debt Management Products
Review of ADB's Liquidity Policy

Review of ADB's Investment Strategy and Authority

Borrowing Program for 2007
Budget of the Asian Development Bank for 2006

6 February

6 February

31 March

3 April

18 July

25 July

22 August
29 August

5 September
3 October

16 November
16 November
16 November
7 December
15 December

 

OCR = ordinary capital resources.

113

SAXIGNAddVAPPENDIXES

Appendix 4

Board of Governors
(as of 31 March 2007)

 

 

 

Koji Omi
(Vapan)
Chair
Nickel Lee-Hang Pedro Solbes Mira
(Samoa) (Spain)
Vice Chair Vice Chair
Member Governor Alternate Governor
Afghanistan Anwar Ul-Haq Ahady Wahidullah Shahrani
Armenia Vardan Khachatryan David Avetissian
Australia Peter Costello Greg Hunt!
Austria Wilhelm Molterer? Marcus Heinz
Azerbaijan Heydar Babayev Samir Sharifov?
Bangladesh A.B. Mirza Md. Azizul Islam* Md. Aminul Islam Bhuiyan>
Belgium Didier Reynders Gino Alzetta
Bhutan Lyonpo Wangdi Norbu Sonam Wangchuk®
Brunei Darussalam Pehin Dato Abdul Rahman Ibrahim’ Dato Ali Apong’”
Cambodia Keat Chhon Aun Porn Moniroth
Canada Peter MacKay vacant
China, People’s Republic of Jin Renging Li Yong
Cook Islands Terepai Maoate Sholan Ivaiti®
Denmark Ole E. Moesby Sus Ulbaek
Fiji Islands Jone Yavala Kubuabola Savenaca Narube
Finland Marjatta Rasi Anneli Vuorinen
France Thierry Breton Xavier Musca
Georgia Aleksi Aleksishvili? George Arveladze'®
Germany Karin Kortmann Rolf Wenzel
Hong Kong, China Henry Tang Joseph Yam
India P. Chidambaram A.K. Jha
Indonesia Sri Mulyani Indrawati Paska Suzetta!’
Ireland Brian Cowen T.D."? Robert Bradshaw
Italy Mario Draghi Ignazio Angeloni
Japan Koji Omi"? Toshihiko Fukui
Kazakhstan Natalya Artemovna Korzhova Marat Apsemetovich Kusainov
Kiribati Nabuti Mwemwenikarawa Taam Biribo'*
Korea, Republic of O-Kyu Kwon'> Seongtae Lee!®
Kyrgyz Republic Akylbek Japarov Sabyrbek A. Moldokulov
Lao People’s Democratic Republic Chansy Phosikham Somphao Phaysith'”
Luxembourg Jean-Louis Schiltz Arsene Jacoby
Malaysia Dato’ Seri Abdullah Haji Ahmad Badawi Dato’ Dr. Wan Abdul Aziz bin Wan
Abdullah'®
1 Succeeded Teresa Gambaro in February 2007. 9 Appointed in February 2007.
2 Succeeded Grasser Karl-Heinz in February 2007. 10 Appointed in February 2007.
3. Succeeded Avaz Alekperov in August 2006. 11 Succeeded Burnahuddin Abdullah in September 2006.
4 Succeeded Shoaib Ahmed in January 2007. Shoaib Ahmed succeeded Akbar 12 Appointed in July 2006.

114

Ali Khan in December 2006. Akbar Ali Khan succeeded M. Saifur Rahman in
November 2006.

Succeeded Rafiqul Islam in February 2007. Rafiqul Islam succeeded Md. Ismail
Zabihullah in November 2006.

Succeeded Daw Tenzin in June 2006.
Appointed in April 2006.
Succeeded Kevin Carr in March 2007

13
14
15,
16
17
18

Succeeded Sadakazu Tanigaki in October 2006.
Succeeded Taneti Maamau in February 2007.
Succeeded Duck-Soo Han in July 2006.

Succeeded Seung Park in April 2006.

Succeeded Phouphet Khamphounvong in January 2007.
Succeeded Dato’ Izzuddin bin Dali in February 2007.Member

Governor

Alternate Governor

 

Maldives Mohamed Jaleel'?
Marshall Islands Brenson S. Wase
Federated States of Micronesia Nick L. Andon
Mongolia Nadmid Bayartsaikhan?°
Myanmar Hla Tun

Nauru David Adeang

Nepal Ram Sharan Mahat?!
The Netherlands Wouter Bos”?

New Zealand Michael Cullen

Norway Anne Margareth Fagertun Stenhammer
Pakistan Omar Ayub Khan

Palau Elbuchel Sadang

Papua New Guinea

Rabbie Namaliu2”

Philippines Margarito B. Teves
Portugal Fernando Teixeira dos Santos
Samoa Nickel Lee-Hang”®
Singapore Tharman Shanmugaratnam”?

Solomon Islands

Gordon Darcy Lilo?!

Spain Pedro Solbes Mira

Sri Lanka Mahinda Rajapaksa

Sweden Joakim Stymne#

Switzerland Jorg Al. Reding?>

Taipei,China Fai-nan Perng

Tajikistan Matlubkhon S. Davlatov
Thailand Chalongphob Sussangkarn?”
Timor-Leste Maria Madalena Brites Boavida
Tonga Siosiua T.T. ‘Utoikamanu
Turkey Ali Babacan

Turkmenistan
Tuvalu

United Kingdom
United States

Geldymurat Abilov
Lotoala Metia®®

Hilary Benn

Henry M. Paulson, Jr2?

Riluwan Shareef
Amon Tibon

Lorin Robert

Ochirbat Chuluunbat
Daw Myo Nwe
Jonathon Kirkby
Vidyadhar Mallik’?
Bert Koenders**

John Whitehead
Henrik Harboe?>
Akram Mallik?®
Marino Rechesengel
Simon Tosali
Amando M. Tetangco, Jr.
Carlos Costa Pina
Hinauri Petana

Teo Ming Kian”
Luma Darcy?

David Vergara Figueras
P. B. Jayasundara
Johanna Brismar Skoog?*
Adrian Schlaepfer
Teng-Cheng Liu?®
Nagmatjon Kh. Buriev
Suparut Kawatkul
Aicha Bassarewan
Aisake Eke

ibrahim H. Ganakcr
vacant

Aunese Makoi Simati
Gareth Thomas
Josette S. Shiner

 

Uzbekistan Saidakhmat Rakhimov Ulugbek Rozukulov
Vanuatu Willie Jimmy Tapangararua Simeon Athy
Viet Nam Le Duc Thuy Phung Khac Ke
19 Succeeded Ismael Shafeeu in April 2006. 30 Succeeded Lim Siong Guan in October 2006.
20 Succeeded N. Altankhuyag in April 2006. 31 Succeeded Bartholomew Ulufa‘alu in October 2006. Bartholomew Ulufa’alu
21 Succeeded Roop Jyoti in May 2006. succeeded Peter Boyers in July 2006.
22 Succeeded Bhoj Raj Ghimire in August 2006. Bhoj Raj Ghimire succeeded Bhanu 32 Appointed in December 2006.
Prasad Acharya in May 2006. 33 Succeeded Annika Soder in November 2006.
23 Succeeded Gerrit Zalm in February 2007. 34 Succeeded Anders Oljelund in April 2006.
24 Succeeded Agnes van Ardenne-van der Hoeven in February 2007. 35 Succeeded Oscar Knapp in August 2006.
25 Succeeded Nils Haugstveit in July 2006. 36 Succeeded Shuh Chen in October 2006.
26 Succeeded Khalid Saeed in October 2006. 37 Succeeded M.R. Pridiyathorn Devakula in March 2007. M.R. Pridiyathorn
27 Succeeded Bart Philemon in August 2006. Devakula succeeded Thanong Bidaya in November 2006.
28 Succeeded Misa Telefoni Retzlaff in April 2006. 38 Succeeded Bikenibeu Paeniu in August 2006.
29 Succeeded Raymond Lim Siang Keat in October 2006. 39 Succeeded John W. Snow in August 2006.

115

SaXIGNAddVAPPENDIXES

Appendix 5

Board of Directors and Voting Groups

(as of 31 January 2007)

 

Director

Alternate Director

Members Represented

 

Emile Gauvreau

Agus Haryanto

Sibtain Fazal Halim

Md. Saad Hashim‘

Chol-Hwi Lee

Masaki Omura
Patrick Pillon

Ashok Saikia

Stephen Sedgwick

David Taylor®

Vacant?

Xiaosong Zheng

Pasi Hellman

Richard Stanley

Marita MagpiliJimenez

Siew Juan Aw?

Tsuen-Hua Shih?

Atsushi Mizuno
Joo Simées de Almeida*

Nima Wangdi

Richard Moore

Sebastian Paust®

Paul W. Curry®

Xiaolong Mo

Canada, Denmark, Finland, Ireland, The Netherlands,
Norway, Sweden

Cook Islands, Fiji Islands, Indonesia, Kyrgyz Republic,
New Zealand, Samoa, Tonga

Kazakhstan, Maldives, Marshall Islands, Mongolia,
Pakistan, Philippines, Timor-Leste

Brunei Darussalam, Malaysia, Myanmar, Nepal,
Singapore, Thailand

Republic of Korea; Papua New Guinea; Sri Lanka;
Taipei,China; Uzbekistan; Vanuatu; Viet Nam

Japan
Belgium, France, Italy, Portugal, Spain, Switzerland

Afghanistan, Bangladesh, Bhutan, India, Lao People’s
Democratic Republic, Tajikistan, Turkmenistan

Australia; Azerbaijan; Cambodia;
Federated States of Micronesia; Hong Kong, China;

Kiribati; Nauru; Palau; Solomon Islands; Tuvalu

Austria, Germany, Luxembourg, Turkey,
United Kingdom

United States

People’s Republic of China

 

oN aunRWwnas

116

Succeeded Chaiyuth Sudthitanakorn on 6 November 2006
Succeeded Sein Tin on 16 July 2006.

Succeeded Batir Mirbabayev on 2 October 2006.
Succeeded Niklaus Zingg on 4 August 2006

Succeeded Volker Ducklau on 1 July 2006 .

Succeeded David Taylor on 1 July 2006.

Paul W. Speltz resigned effective 29 September 2006.
Succeeded Troy Wray on 20 January 2006.Appendix 6

Committees of the Board of Directors
(as of 31 December 2006)

Standing Committees

 

Audit Committee
Patrick Pillon (Chair)
Md. Saad Hashim
Paul W. Curry
Tsuen-Hua Shih
Atsushi Mizuno
Richard Stanley

Board Compliance Review Committee
Stephen Sedgwick (Chair)
Chol-Hwi Lee
Siew Juan Aw
Marita Magpili-Jimenez
Sebastian Paust
Joao Simoes de Almeida

Budget Review Committee
Ashok Saikia (Chair)
Sibtain Fazal Halim

Masaki Omura
Paul W. Curry
Pasi Hellman
Xiaolong Mo

Development Effectiveness Committee
Agus Haryanto (Chair)
Emile Gauvreau

Xiaosong Zheng
Richard Moore

David Taylor

Nima Wangdi

Ethics Committee
Agus Haryanto (Chair)
Emile Gauvreau
Ashok Saikia

Sibtain Fazal Halim
David Taylor

Working Group on the Annual Report for 2006

 

Pasi Hellman (Chair)

Paul W. Curry
Marita MagpiliJimenez

Xiaolong Mo
Richard Moore
Nima Wangdi

Appendix 7

ADB Institute Advisory Council

(as of 31 December 2006)

Masahiko Aoki Stanford University

Victor H. Frank, Jr. JHS Associates, Washington DC

Eric Girardin University Aix-Marseille 2

Ajit K. Jain Secretary to Government of India’

Li Yong Vice Minister of Finance, People’s Republic of China

Andrew Macintyre Australian National University

lfzal Ali Asian Development Bank

ADB Institute Dean
Masahiro Kawai (16 January 2007-present)
Peter McCawley (2003—January 2007)

1 Retired from the Government of India.

SAXIGNAddVAPPENDIXES

Appendix 8

Organizational Structure!

(as of 1 March 2007)

i

 

BOARD OF GOVERNORS

 

 

BOARD OF DIRECTORS

 

 

 

PRESIDENT
H. Kuroda

 

 

 

MANAGING
DIRECTOR GENERAL
R. Nag

 

 

 

 

i

 

‘OPERATIONS EVALUATION
DEPARTMENT?
B. Murray, Director General

‘OFFICE OF THE COMPLIANCE
REVIEW PANEL?
(vacant), Secretary

 

[

1

 

ASIAN DEVELOPMENT
BANK INSTITUTE
M. Kawai, Dean

 

VICE PRESIDENT
(Knowledge Management and
Sustainable Development)
Ursula Schafer-Preuss

 

VICE PRESIDENT
(Operations 1)
Lin

 

VICE PRESIDENT
(Operations 2)
C. Lawrence Greenwood, Jr.

 

VICE PRESIDENT
(Finance and Administration)
K. Pholsena

 

 

OFFICE OF
1__ THE AUDITOR GENERAL
P. Pedersen, Auditor General

 

 

STRATEGY AND POLICY
ial DEPARTMENT
K. Sakai, Director General

 

OFFICE OF REGIONAL
ECONOMIC INTEGRATION
J. Lee, Head

 

 

OFFICE OF THE SPECIAL

PROJECT FACILITATOR

R. May, Special Project
Facilitator

 

 

RISK MANAGEMENT UNIT
Y. Shin, Head

 

 

DEPARTMENT OF EXTERNAL
u RELATIONS
(vacant), Director General

 

 

 

 

REGIONAL AND SUSTAINABLE
DEVELOPMENT DEPARTMENT
B. Lohani, Director General

SOUTH ASIA DEPARTMENT
K. Senga, Director General

 

 

EAST ASIA DEPARTMENT
H. S. Rao, Director General

 

OFFICE OF
THE SECRETARY
J. Hovland, The Secretary

 

 

ECONOMICS AND RESEARCH
DEPARTMENT
|. Ali, Chief Economist

 

 

OFFICE OF
COFINANCING OPERATIONS
W. Liepach, Principal Director

 

 

 

 

EUROPEAN
REPRESENTATIVE OFFICE
P. Bénédic
Resident Director General

 

 

JAPANESE
REPRESENTATIVE OFFICE
W. Chung
Resident Director General

 

BANGLADESH
T] _ RESIDENT MISSION
H. Du, Country Director

 

PRC RESIDENT MISSION
H T. Shibuichi
Country Director

 

 

 

INDIA RESIDENT MISSION
H T. Kondo
Country Director

 

MONGOLIA
RESIDENT MISSION
A. Ruthenberg, Country Director

 

 

NEPAL
RESIDENT MISSION
(vacant), Country Director

I

 

 

 

 

SRI LANKA
RESIDENT MISSION
R. Vokes, Country Director

SOUTHEAST ASIA
DEPARTMENT

 

A. Thapan, Director General

 

 

 

CAMBODIA
RESIDENT MISSION
A, Goswami, Country Director

 

OFFICE OF THE
GENERAL COUNSEL
A. Mitchell, General Counsel

 

 

BUDGET, PERSONNEL AND
MANAGEMENT SYSTEMS
DEPARTMENT
K, Munenaga, Director General

 

 

‘

OFFICE OF
ADMINISTRATIVE SERVICES
A. Wasan, Principal Director

 

CENTRAL AND WEST ASIA
H DEPARTMENT
J. Miranda,” Director General

 

 

 

INDONESIA
RESIDENT MISSION
E. Cua, Country Director

 

 

 

AFGHANISTAN
T]___ RESIDENT MISSION
B. Fawcett, Country Director

 

LAO PDR
RESIDENT MISSION
J. Nugent, Country Director

 

 

AZERBAUJAN
RESIDENT MISSION
(vacant), Country Director

 

 

PHILIPPINES
L} COUNTRY OFFICE
T. Grouch, Country Director

 

 

CONTROLLER'S
DEPARTMENT
(vacant), Controller

 

 

TREASURY
DEPARTMENT
M. Kashiwagi, Treasurer

 

 

KAZAKHSTAN
RESIDENT MISSION
S. Wermert, Country Director

 

THAILAND
RESIDENT MISSION
J. Verbiest, Country Director

 

 

 

KYRGYZ
RESIDENT MISSION
M.A. Malik, Country Director

 

VIET NAM.
RESIDENT MISSION
A. Konishi, Country Director|

 

 

PAKISTAN
RESIDENT MISSION
P Fedon, Country Director

 

 

 

 

 

NORTH AMERICAN
REPRESENTATIVE OFFICE
T. Diaz
Resident Director General

 

 

TAJIKISTAN
RESIDENT MISSION
N. Jain, Country Director

 

PACIFIC DEPARTMENT
P. Erquiaga, Director General

 

 

 

UZBEKISTAN
RESIDENT MISSION
H. Wei, Country Director

 

 

 

 

PRIVATE SECTOR

 

{OPERATIONS DEPARTMENT
R. Bestani, Director General

 

 

 

For a list of management and senior staff, go to ww.adb.org/About/management.asp.
The Operations Evaluations Department reports to the Board of Directors through the
Development Effectiveness Committee.

The Compliance Review Panel reports to the Board of Directors.
Concurrent chief compliance officer and special advisor to the President on clean energy and

environment.

Concurrently in charge of the innovation and efficiency initiative.

118

 

PACIFIC LIAISON AND
COORDINATION OFFICE
N. Chakwin, Regional Director

 

 

PACIFIC
[|_ SUBREGIONAL OFFICE

5, Jarvenpaa, Regional Director

 

PAPUA NEW GUINEA
T]__ RESIDENT MISSION
S. van der Tak, Country Director

 

 

SPECIAL LIAISON OFFICE
IN TIMOR-LESTE
C. Andrews, Resident Representative

 

 

 

 

 

CENTRAL OPERATIONS
SERVICES OFFICE

 

P. Daltrop, Principal Director

 

 

OFFICE OF
INFORMATION SYSTEMS
AND TECHNOLOGY

 

R, Dawson, Principal DirectorAppendix 9

Former ADB Presidents and Vice Presidents

(as of 31 December 2006)

 

President

 

Takeshi Watanabe
Shiro Inoue
Taroichi Yoshida
Masao Fujioka
Kimimasa Tarumizu
Mitsuo Sato

Tadao Chino

24 November 1966-24 November 1972
25 November 1972-23 November 1976
24 November 1976-23 November 1981
24 November 1981-23 November 1989
24 November 1989-23 November 1993
24 November 1993-15 January 1999
16 January 1999-31 January 2005

 

Vice President

 

CS. Krishna Moorthi
A. T. Bambawale

M. Narasimham

S. Stanley Katz

In Yong Chung
William R. Thomson
Gunther G. Schulz
Bong-Suh Lee

Pierre Uhel

Peter H. Sullivan
Myoung-Ho Shin

John Lintjer

Joseph B. Eichenberger
Geert H.P.B van der Linden

19 December 1966-31 March 1978
1 April 1978-28 October 1985

1 November 1985-31 July 1988

1 April 1978-28 September 1990

1 August 1988-31 July 1993

1 October 1990-30 June 1994

1 April 1983-30 June 1995

1 August 1993-31 July 1998

1 July 1995-24 November 1998

6 July 1994-20 September 2000

1 August 1998-31 July 2003

18 January 1999-16 January 2004
15 December 2000-23 December 2005
1 September 2003-31 August 2006

119

SAXIGNAddVAPPENDIXES

Appendix 10
Summary of Budget for 2007
Internal Administrative Expenses

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

($ thousand)
2006
Budget After 2007
Budget Transfers? Actual Budget
|. | BOARD OF GOVERNORS 1,350 1,350 969 1,400
Il. BOARD OF DIRECTORS 19,540 20,892 20,614 21,499
Offices of the Directors 11,692 12,478 12,478 12,647
Accountability Mechanism 1,926 1,926 1,648 2,022
Operations Evaluations 5,922 6,488 6,488 6,830
Ill. OPERATIONAL EXPENSES :236,123 236,123 227,892 250,509
Salaries 123,606 123,606 119,739 129,796
Benefits 65,008 65,008 64,380 71,773
Staff Development 3,697 3,570 3,270 4,016
Relocation 4,848 4,848 3,834 5,242
Consultants 19,327 19,454 19,454 19,370
Business Travel 19,259 19,259 16,901 19,930
Representation 378 378 315 382
lV. ADMINISTRATIVE EXPENSES 56,566 56,566 53,808 60,196
Communications 6,540 6,540 6,227 6,549
Office Occupancy 11,945 12,451 12,451 13,690
Library 694 916 916 950
Office Supplies 1,771 1,771 1,767 1,840
Office Equipment 5,518 5,518 4,892 5,694
Contractual Services 10,941 10,941 9,555 11,831
Insurance 3,483 3,483 3,193 3,054
Depreciation 15,271 14,413 14,273 15,973
Miscellaneous 403 533 533 615
V. TOTAL BEFORE GENERAL CONTINGENCY 313,579 314,931 303,283" 333,604
VI. GENERAL CONTINGENCY 3,136 1,784 - 3,336
VII. Less: Fee Reimbursement from Trust Funds (3,818) (3,818) (3,907)< (4,076)
TOTAL 312,897 312,897 299,376 332,864

 

== 0 or not applicable.

* Transfers were made between budget items without exceeding the original amount of each category. An amount of $1,352,000 was transferred from the general contingency
to meet overruns in the budget category of Board of Directors: offices of the directors ($786,000) and operations evaluation ($566,000)

» Excludes the following items reconciling with financial statements in compliance with generally accepted accounting principles: (i) provisions for future liabilities with respect
to severance pay (-$2,364,000); (ii) accumulated compensated absences ($640,000), and accrued resettlement or repatriation allowances (-$1,691,000); (iii) adjustments of
actuarially determined assessment of benefit obligations with respect to pension costs ($18,376,000) and postretirement medical benefits ($22,491,000); (iv) expenses related
to the enhanced separation program ($6,711,000); and (v) adjustments related to the Afghanistan Resident Mission Guest House ($68,000). Total administrative expenses,
as shown in the financial statements, amounted to $347,514,000. This amount, after deducting $1,178,000 directly charged to Japan Special Fund ($1,098,000) and Japan
Scholarship Program ($80,000), has been distributed as follows: OCR - $127,669,000 (Ref. OCR-2) net of $28,434,000 as front-end fee offset against loan origination costs and
recognized as a reduction in administrative expenses; ADF - $19,233,000 (Ref. ADF-2).

© This amount ($3,907,000) reflects the estimated total expenses apportioned for administering the trust funds during the year.

120Appendix 11

Professional Staff Representation of ADB Members

(as of 31 December 2006)

 

 

 

 

 

 

National National
Officers/ Officers/
Professional Administrative Professional Administrative
Member Management Staff Staff Total Member Management Staff Staff Total
A. Regional B. Nonregional 0 0 0 0
Afghanistan 0 0 10 10 Austria 0 7 0 T
Armenia 0 0 0 0 Belgium 0 10 0 10
Australia 0 43 6 49 Canada 0 46 0) 46
Azerbaijan 0 1 6 7 Denmark 0 6 0 6
Bangladesh 0 9 44 53 Finland 0 4 0 4
Bhutan 0 3 0 3 France 0 23 0 23
Brunei Darussalam 0 0 0 0 Germany 1 36 3 40
Cambodia 0 0 16 16 Ireland 0 0 0 0
China, People’s Italy 0 17 0 17
Rep. of 1 52 34 87 Luxembourg 0 2 0 2
Cook Islands 0 0 0 0 Netherlands 0 13 0 13
Fiji Islands 0 3 9 12 Norway 0 5 0 5
Hong Kong, China 0 4 0 4 Portugal 0 4 0 4
India 0 58 37 95 Spain 0 9 0 9
Indonesia 0 32 36 68 Sweden 0 8 0 8
Japan 1 119 2 122 Switzerland 0 6 0) 6
Kazakhstan 0 5 5 10 Turkey 0 6 0 6
Kiribati 0 0 0 0 United Kingdom 0 32 0 32
Korea, Rep. of 0 32 1 33 United States 1 107 3 111
Kyrgyz Republic 0 3 7 10 Subtotal 2 341 6 349
Lao PDR 1 0 12 13
Malaysia 0 20 0 20 Overall Total 5 856 1,544 2,405
Maldives 0 0 0 0
Marshall Islands 0 0 0 0
Micronesia,
Fed. States of 0 1 0 1
Mongolia 0 4 7 11
Myanmar 0 3 0 2
Nauru 0 0 0 0
Nepal 0 7 25) 32
New Zealand 0 13 0 13
Pakistan 0 24 34 58
Palau 0 0 0 0
Papua New Guinea 0 1 5 6
Philippines 0 28 1,166 1,194
Samoa 0 1 1 2
Singapore 0 7 0 i
Solomon Islands 0 0 0 0
Sri Lanka 0 13 18 31
Taipei,China 0 6 0 6
Tajikistan 0 1 10 11
Thailand 0 10 9 19
Timor-Leste 0 0 3 3
Tonga 0 1 0 1
Turkmenistan 0 0 0 0
Tuvalu 0 0 0 0
Uzbekistan 0 5 13 18
Vanuatu 0 1 0 1
Viet Nam 0 5 22 27
Subtotal 3 515 1,538 2,056

 

121

SAXIGNAddVGLOSSARY

B-loan. An ADB loan funded by third parties without recourse to ADB. ADB’s complementary financing scheme
(CFS) involves the prearranged sale to commercial lenders of participation in a cofinanced or “complementary”
ADB loan without recourse to ADB for debt service. The
CFS is used solely to facilitate commercial cofinancing of
ADB-assisted private sector projects. ADBis the “lender-of
record,” since the complementary loan is made in ADB's
name. Complementary loans are sometimes referred to
as “B” loans to distinguish them from the direct, or “A”
loans, provided by multilateral institutions.

Direct value-added cofinancing. Cofinancing with active coordination and formal agreements among financing partners that bring about defined client benefits,
including contractual commitments by ADB (such as for
credit enhancement, syndication, or financial administration) to facilitate mobilization, administration, or

 

participation in cofinancing.

Loans at risk. Loans rated as unsatisfactory or partly
satisfactory for impact and outcomes or implementation progress as articulated in the design and monitoring framework or those that might slip into those

 

categories.

Multitranche financing facility. A debt-financing
facility to target discrete, sequential components o
large stand-alone projects; slices (or tranches) of sector
investment programs over a longer time frame than the
current norm; financial intermediary credit lines; and
guarantees.

Sovereign/nonsovereign. ADB lending is classified
as sovereign and nonsovereign. A sovereign loan
is guaranteed by the national government, while a
nonsovereign loan is not guaranteed by the nationa
government. Nonsovereign operations refer to an ADBfinanced transaction with a subsovereign, state-owned
enterprise, other public private entity, or private sector
entity as obligor or investee, normally without direc
sovereign indemnity. In 2006, ADB's nonsovereign
operations supported the infrastructure, capital market,
and banking sectors, among others.

 

122

ABBREVIATIONS

ADB — Asian Development Bank

ADF — Asian Development Fund

ASEAN -— Association of Southeast Asian Nations

GDP — gross domestic product

GMS — Greater Mekong Subregion

HIV/AIDS =-— ~~ human immunodeficiency virus/
acquired immune deficiency syndrome

IT — _ information technology

km - kilometer

Lao PDR — Lao People’s Democratic Republic

NGO —  nongovernment organization

OCR — ordinary capital resources

PRC — People’s Republic of ChinaADB CONTACT ADDRESSES

(as of 31 March 2007)

Afghanistan Resident Mission (AFRM)
House No. 126, Street 2

Haji Yaqob Roundabout

Shar-e-now

Next to District 10 Police Department
Kabul, Afghanistan

Tel +93 020 210 3602

Fax 5535 204

adbafrm@adb.org
www.adb.org/afrm

ADB local: 5535

Azerbaijan Resident Mission (AZRM)
96 Nizami Street, The Landmark, 4 floor
Baku AZ1000, Azerbaijan

Tel +994 12 496 5800

Fax +994 12 465 9990
adbazrm@adb.org

www.adb.org/azrm

ADB local: 5588

Bangladesh Resident Mission (BRM)
Plot E-31, Sher-e-Bangla Nagar
Dhaka-1207, Bangladesh

GPO # 2100, Dhaka, Bangladesh

Tel +880 2 815 6000 to 6016

Fax +880 2 815 6018/6019
adbbrm@adb.org

www.adb.org/brm

ADB local: 5512

Cambodia Resident Mission (CARM)
29 Suramarit Boulevard

Sangkat Chatomuk

Khan Daun Penh

Phnom Penh, Cambodia

P.O. Box 2436

Tel +855 23 215805/215806/216417
Fax +855 23 215807
adbcarm@adb.org
www.adb.org/carm

ADB local: 5509

India Resident Mission (INRM)
4 San Martin Marg

Chanakyapuri

New Delhi 110 021

P.O. Box 5331, Chanakyapuri HPO
Tel +91 11 2410 7200

Fax +91 11 2687 0955
adbinrm@adb.org
www.adb.org/inrm

ADB local: 5514

Extended Mission to Kerala
URR 21, Uppalam Road
Vanchiyoor

General Post Office
Trivandrum 695 001

Extended Mission to Tamilnadu
Plot No. 69, Door No. 54

Second Main Raod

Raja Annamalaipuram

Chennai 600 028

Indonesia Resident Mission (IRM)
Gedung BRI II, 7" Floor

JI. Jend Sudirman Kav. 44-46
Jakarta 10210, Indonesia
P.O. Box 99 JKPSA.

Jakarta 10350A, Indonesia
Tel +62 21 251 2721

Fax +62 21 251 2749
adbirm@adb.org
www.adb.org/irm

ADB local: 5511

Extended Mission in Sumatera
JI. Cut Nyak Dhien 375
Lamteumen Timur

Banda Aceh

Tel +62 651 41429

Fax +62 651 45773

Kazakhstan Resident Mission (KARM)
12 Samal, Astana Tower Business Center
10¢ Floor, Astana 010000, Kazakhstan
Tel +7 3172 325053/325054

Fax +7 3172 328343

20 A Kazybek bi Street

Arai Building, 4" Floor
Almaty 050010, Kazakhstan
Tel +7 3272 582223/917344
Fax +7 3272 918670
adbkarm@adb.org
www.adb.org/karm

ADB local: 5506

Kyrgyz Resident Mission (KYRM)
52-54, Orozbekov Street

Bishkek, Kyrgyz Republic

Tel +996 312 627343/612 900445
Fax +996 312 627344
adbkyrm@adb.org
www.adb.org/kyrm

ADB local: 5542

Lao PDR Resident Mission (LRM)
Corner of Lanexang Avenue and
Samsenthai Road

P.O. Box 9724, Vientiane

Lao People’s Democratic Republic
Tel +856 21 250444

Fax +856 21 250333
adbIrm@adb.org
www.adb.org/Irm

ADB local: 5544

Mongolia Resident Mission (MNRM)
MCS Plaza, 2°¢ Floor

Seoul Street-4

Ulaanbaatar, Mongolia

P.O. Box 1083, Central Post Office
Ulaanbaatas-13, Mongolia

Tel +976 11 313440/323507/329836
Fax +976 11 311795
adbmnrm@adb.org
www.adb.org/mnrm

ADB local: 5505

Nepal Resident Mission (NRM)
Srikunj, Kamaladi, Ward No. 31
P.O. Box 5017

Kathmandu, Nepal

Tel +977 1 422 7779

Fax +977 1 422 5063
adbnrm@adb.org
www.adb.org/nrm

ADB local: 5515

Philippines Country Office (PhCO)
6 ADB Avenue, Mandaluyong City
1550 Metro Manila, Philippines

Tel +63 2 683 1000

Fax +63 2 683 1030

E-mail: phco@adb.org
www.adb.org/phco

ADB local: 1000

Pacific Liaison and Coordination Office
(PLCO)

Level 18, 1 Margaret Street

(corner of Clarence and Margaret Streets)
Sydney, New South Wales 2000
Australia

Tel +61 2 8270 9444

Fax +61 2 8270 9445
adbplco@adb.org

www.adb.org/plco

ADB local: 5589

Papua New Guinea Resident Mission
(PNRM)

Level 13, Deloitte Tower

P.O. Box 1992

Port Moresby, NCD, Papua New Guinea
Tel +675 321 0408

Fax +675 321 0407

adbpnrm@adb.org

www.adb.org/pnrm

ADB local: 5565

People’s Republic of China Resident
Mission (PRCM)

7' Floor, Block D, Beijing Merchants
International Financial Center

156 Fuxingmennei Avenue

Xicheng District

Beijing 100031, PRC

Tel +86 10 6642 6601

Fax +86 10 6642 6606
adbprcm@adb.org
www.adb.org/prem

ADB local: 5521

Pakistan Resident Mission (PRM)
Overseas Pakistanis Foundation Building
Sharah-eJamhuriyat

G-5/2, Islamabad

GPOnBox 1863, Islamabad, Pakistan

Tel +92 51 282 5011 to 5016/208 7300
Fax +92 51 282 3324/227 4718
adbprm@adb.org

www.adb.org/prm

ADB local: 5513

123Special Office in Timor-Leste (SOTL)
ADB-World Bank-IMF Building

Avenida Dos Direitos Humanos

P.O. Box 62, Dili, Timor-Leste

Tel +670 332 4801

Fax +670 332 4132

E-mail:

www.adb.org.tl

ADB local: 5520

South Pacific Subregional Office (SPSO)
Level 5, Ra Marama Building

91 Gordon Street

Suva, Fiji Islands

Tel +679 331 8101

Fax +679 331 8074

adbspso@adb.org

www.adb.org/spso

ADB local: 5522

Sri Lanka Resident Mission (SLRM)
49/14-15 Galle Road

Colombo 3, Sri Lanka

Tel +94 11 238 7055/533 1111

Fax +94 11 238 6527
adbslrm@adb.org

www.adb.org/sirm

ADB local: 5507/5533

Tajikistan Resident Mission (TJRM)
107 Nozim Khikmat Street

Dushanbe, 734001, Tajikistan

Tel +992 372 235314/235315/210558
Fax +992 372 244900
adbtjrm@adb.org

www.adb.org/tjrm

ADB local: 5539

ADB WEBSITES

ADB Countries www.a
ADB's Reform Agenda www.a
Accountability Mechanism www.a
Anticorruption www.a
Clean Energy www.adb.
Cofinancing www.adb.
Consultation and Participation www.adb.
Consulting Services www.adb.
Debt Issuance www.adb.
Economics www.adb.
Education www.a
Environment www.a
Evaluation www.a
Financial Resources www.ad
Gender and Development www.a
Governance www.ad!
Health Sector www.ai
HIV/AIDS www.ad
Indigenous Peoples www.adb.
Information Sharing

and Disclosure www.adb.

 

 

124

Thailand Resident Mission (TRM)
23:4 Floor, The Offices at Central World
999/9 Rama | Road, Patumwan
Bangkok 10330

Thailand

Tel +66 2 263 5300

Fax +66 2 263 5301
jpverbiest@adb.org

www.adb.org

Uzbekistan Resident Mission (URM)
1, Khodjaeva Street

Tashkent 700027

Republic of Uzbekistan

Tel + 998 71 1401920-25

Fax + 998 71 1401976
adburm@adb.org

www.adb.org/urm

ADB local: 5508

Viet Nam Resident Mission (VRM)
Units 701-706,

Sun Red River Building

23 Phan Chu Trinh Street

Hoan Kiem District

Ha Noi, Viet Nam

Tel +84 4 933 1374

Fax +84 4 933 1373
adbvrm@adb.org

www.adb.org/vrm or www.adb.org.vn
ADB local: 5519

org/Disclosure/

European Representative Office (ERO)
Rahmhofstrasse 2

60313 Frankfurt am Main, Germany

Tel +49 69 2193 6400

Fax +49 69 2193 6444

adbero@adb.org

www.adb.org/ero

ADB local: 5517

Japan Representative Office (JRO)
Yamato Seimei Building 2

1-7-7 Uchisaiwaicho, Chiyoda-ku
Tokyo, 100-0011, Japan

Tel +81 3 3504 3160

Fax +81 3 3504 3165
adbjro@adb.org

www.adb.org/jro

ADB local: 5518

North American Representative Office (NARO)
815 Connecticut Avenue

NW, Suite 325

Washington DC 20006, USA

Tel +1 202 728 1500

Fax +1 202 728 1505

adbnaro@adb.org

www.adb.org/naro

ADB local: 5517

Asian Developemnt Bank Institute
8" Floor, Kasumigaseki Bldg.

2-5 Kasumigaseki 3 Chome
Chiyoda-ku, Tokyo 100, Japan

Tel + 81 3 3593 5500

Fax + 81 3 3593 55071
info@adbi.org

www.adbi.org

.org/Countries/ Involuntary Resettlement www.adb.org/Resettlement/
.org/ReformAgenda/ Knowledge Management www.adb.org/Knowledge-Management/
.org/Accountability-Mechanism/ Law and Policy Reform www.adb.org/Law/
.org/Integrity/ Managing for Development
org/Clean-Energy/ Results www.adb.org/MfDR/
org/Cofinancing/ Microfinance www.adb.org/Microfinance/
org/Participation/ News and Events www.adb.org/News/
org/Consulting/ Nongovernment Organizations www.adb.org/NGOs/
org/bond-investors/ Poverty Reduction www.adb.org/Poverty/
org/Economics/ Private Sector Development
.org/Education/ and Finance www.adb.org/PrivateSector/
.org/Environment/ Procurement www.adb.org/Procurement/
.org/Evaluation/ Projects www.adb.org/Projects/
.org/Finance/ Publications www.adb.org/Publications/
.org/Gender/ Safeguards www.adb.org/Safeguards/
.org/Governance/ Social Protection www.adb.org/SocialProtection/
.org/Health/ Statistics www.adb.org/Statistics/
.org/HIV-AIDS/ Tsunami Response www.adb.org/Tsunami/
org/IndigenousPeoples/ Urban Development www.adb.org/urbandev/
Water www.adb.org/Water/