macro army aeASIAN DEVELOPMENT BANK .

TA ESHI WATANABE
President and..:

Chairman of the Board of wider 2

The ie Right Honourable wim McMahon, MP.
Chairman ° |

Board of Governors . ;
: Asian Development Bank. .Ree oe aes me Ue cee aca Ute aes N er erCONTENTS

President's Letter of Transmittal
introduction

PART /—Ordinary Operations

A. Loans and Technical Assistance

8, Surveys and Other Regional Activities

C. Relations with Other International
Organizations

PART /i—Special Funds Operations
PART Ili—Administration and Organization

PART !V-—The Bank's Finances

A. Ordinary Capital Resources
B, Special Funds Resources

PART V—Appendices

1 Financial Statements and Opinions of ©

Independent Auditors
2 Summary of Administrative Budget

3 Resolutions of Board of Governors at
First Annual Meeting

4 Channels 6f Communication

5 Official Depositories

6 Board of Governors

7 Board of Directors and Voting Groups
8 Principal Officers

9 Regional Transport Survey Steering
Committee

28
30
32
34

39

40
4t

44

45
68

72

737

74
78
Ti
78

&0

INTRODUCTION

nywe

In 1967, its first year, the Bank was principally
concerned with the task of building up an
initial framework of organization, policyformulation and staffing to form the basis for
its developmental activities in the region in
the succeeding years. The year 1968 saw a
considerable expansion in the operational
activities of the Bank in fulfillment of the
objectives for which it was instituted.

During the year, seven loans amounting to
US $41.6 million were approved by the Board
of Directors. Recipient countries were Ceylon,
Republic of China (two loans), Republic of
Korea, Malaysia, Pakistan and Thailand. Five
loans were for specific projects—tea factory
modernization, an expressway and a road
feasibility study, a water supply scheme and a
plant for the production of an intermediate for
polyester fiber—while two were for institutions
financing industrial development.

Also during the year, eleven technical assistance proposals involving an outlay of
US $1,137,000 in grants were considered and
approved by the Board of Directors. These
proposals covered both the preparation of
specific projects and programs which the
Bank might later consider for financing and
sectoral activities of importance to the countries
concerned,

Early in 1968, the Bank completed the Asian
Agricultural Survey, which was commenced in
1967. The Survey Report, which was made
available to member governments in March
1868, and was published in February 1969,
is the result of eight months of investigation
and deliberation by a team of experts in
various fields of agriculture. The Report's
conclusion is an encouraging one: there are
tich prospects for agriculture in Asia provided
the process of transformation from the tradition al pattern to a modern technological approach
can be accelerated. Subsequent to the Report,
several follow-up activities of a regional or
of a national character have come under consideration by the Bank.

Also in 1968, acting in response to a request
made by eight Southeast Asian countries,
the Board of Directors approved the undertaking
of a Regional Transport Survey. The Governments taking this initiative saw the possibilities
of regional transport development as an important function of integrated economic growth
in the region.

The establishment of two Special Funds for
concessional lending to developing member
countries was made possible through contributions during the year by the Governments
of Japan and Canada. Efforts will continue in
the coming year to augment the Special
Funds. The formulation of Special Funds Rules
and Regulations during 1968 will assist these
efforts. Also worthy of note is the fact that the
ordinary resources available to the Bank for
financing development in member countries
have been enlarged by commercial bank
participation in three of the loans made by
the Bank during 1968. In respect of technical
assistance, agreements entered into in 1968
with the Federal Republic of Germany, Japan
and Canada supplemented similar agreements
previously reached with the United States and
the United Kingdom to contribute grant resources to the Bank for financing such
activities. Preliminary discussions for possible
approaches in 196S to certain European capital
markets have been held. There has also been
satisfactory progress in qualifying the Bank’s
obligations ‘for access to important capita!
markets in the United States.

Together with these activities, work has
continued on the internal structuring of the
Bank and in further delineation of policy for
the guidance of the Bank in its future work.
The staff of the Bank has grown with the
increasing pace of operations and the search
for competent personnel is a continuing one.
Growing experience has indicated the desirability of certain changes in the basic
organization of the Bank and these will be
effected during 1969.

aORDINARY OPERATIONSA. LOANS AND
TECHNICAL
ASSISTANCE

LOAN POLICIES

In its approach to lending operations, the
Bank continued to follow previously established
broad guidelines while on certain specific
matters, such as the rate of interest, commitment charge and procurement and consultant
policies, definite decisions for future guidance
were taken during the year.

The Board of Directors, on 8 February 1968,
determined that the rate of interest on loans
made from the ordinary resources of the Bank
should be 6% per cent per annum. This interest
rate was applied to all loans made by the Bank
in 1968 but in the case of loans made to
development banks, the prevailing rate on the
date on which sums are credited to the joan
account is to apply. A careful watch is being
maintained on changing conditions in capital
markets and on the interest rate policies
followed by other similar institutions.

The commitment charge, by decision of the
Board of Directors on 23 January 1968, was
fixed for the time being at 3 of one per cent
per annum.

Policies also were framed by the Board of
Directors early in the year in respect of precure
ment and of employment of consultants. The
basic principles governing procurement procedures to be observed by borrowers from the
Bank are set out in Sections (ix) and (xi) of
Article 14 of the Articles of Agreement Establishing the Asian Development Bank (the
Articles of Agreement). They stipulate that the
proceeds of any loan shai! be used only for
procurement in member countries of goods and
services produced in member countries, except
in special circumstances where the Board of
Directors determines otherwise, and that the
proceeds of any loan are to be used with due
attention to considerations of economy and
efficiency. The implications of these principles
were spelled out in greater detail in “Guidelines
for Procurement under Asian Development
Bank Loans” which were approved by the
Board of Directors on 1 February 1968 and
embodied in a brochure published by the Bank.
Suitable arrangements have been evolved for
further refinement of these policies as circumstances may require. For instance, in the case
of loans to national development banks, it has
been recognised that individual sub-borrowers
may not always be in a position to go effectively
through the processes of international competitive bidding; appropriate provisions have,
therefore, been introduced into the loan arrangements spscifying categories of purchases requiring international competitive bidding, international shopping and normal trade procurement.

The Board of Directors on 5 February 1968
approved the broad principles and guidelines
governing the employment of consultants or
consulting firms by the Bank and its borrowers.
The guidelines, which have been embodied in
2 brochure ‘‘Uses of Consultants by the Asian
Development Bank and its Borrowers”, cover
the purposes for which such consultants can be
employed, the functions and duties of consulting firms, the responsibilities of borrowers in
selecting consulting firms and the procedures
for selecting consulting firms and consultants.TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE

An important element of the Bank's developmental role as envisaged by the Articles of
Agreement is the furnishing of technicai
assistance to developing member countries,
either on a grant or loan basis (or a combination
of both), not only in the context of heiping
formulate projects but also in furthering the
study of specific economic problems of national
or regional concern. The Articles of Agreement
enable the Bank to charge the costs of technical
assistance extended on a non-reimbursable
basis to the net income of the Bank and further
provide that in the first five years the Bank can
utilize up to two per cent of its paid-in capital
for this purpose. The Bank has been able to
budget all its technical assistance activities
against income without, so far, drawing on
any portion of the capital. The resources of
the Bank have been supplemented by the
generous action of various governments (as
Getailed in Part !V) in augmenting the resources
available for technical assistance. it is also
relevant to note that developing member
countries have unsparingly made available the
services of their experts when so requested by
the Bank in the course of its technical assistance
operations.

OPERATIONS
BY COUNTRIES

Seven loans were extended in the year under
review amounting in aggregate to US$41.6
million. In addition, four technical assistance
Proposals were sanctioned for the formulation
of feasibility reports or detailed project reports
for later consideration for possible Bank lending,

and seven technical assistance proposals were
approved for non-loan purposes. The total
cost of these eleven projects, spread over
seven of the Bank's developing members, will
amount to US $1,137,000.

CEYLON

A loan of US $2 million to the Central Bank
of Ceylon to assist in financing the first phase
of the Tea Factory Modernization Program
was approved on 2 July 1968.

The loan is for a term of 15 years including a
grace period of three years, The loan documents
were signed on 17 July 1968 at the Bank's
headquarters.

The tea industry in Ceyton is predominantly
owned by the private sector and is the most
important source of foreign exchange, contributing over 60 per cent of the annual foreign
exchange earnings of the country. While world
tea prices declined continuously in the decade
ended 1967, Ceylon’‘s tea prices have declined
relatively more than those of its competitors.
In order to: ensure the industry's viability, the
Government of Ceylon jaunched in 1959 the
Tea Rehabilitation Program to increase the
yields of areas under tea. This Program has
already raised productivity on an average from
675 pounds of tea per acre in 1955-57 to 816
pounds in 1967; the Government is pursuing
the Program and augmenting it as necessary.
Deficiencies in factories that process tea have
resulted in a reduction of foreign exchange
earnings on the ane hand, and a higher cost
of production on the other. Against this background, the Government, as a complement to
its Tea Rehabilitation Program, introduced a
Tea Factory Development Scheme in 1966
aimed at rehabilitating and modernizing tea.

Ceyfon's Tea Factory Modernization Program, which is being tinanced by the
Bank with @ $2 million foan, will help to expand the output and improve the
quatity of tea—the country's largest single source of foreign exchange. The
modern trough withering system (bottom feft) tacititates supervision, saves
space and reduces maintenance and operating cosis as compared with the
old form of tat withering (top teft), Similarly, an electro-static statk extractor
of tea provides a striking contrast to the traditional form of hand picking (below)~Beriéd of 2°y

factories in order to raise their capacity for
processing green leaf.

The investment program contemplated by
the Government of Ceylon for the modernization
of tea factories covers a period of five years,
beginning in 1966, and is planned to be implemented in two phases. The total cost of the
first phase was estimated at Rs. 29 million
(US $4.9 million), including a foreign exchange
element equivalent to US$2 million. The local
cost will be met by resources raised by the
factory owners and by loans from credit
institutions refinanced by the Central Bank.
The Bank’s foan covers the foreign exchange
needs for the first phase. The loan was declared
effective on 18 September 1968 and is
programmed for utilization within 30 months.

CHINA

i. On 19 November 1968, the Bank approved
the request of the Republic of China for
technical assistance in the conduct of (a) a
feasibility study of the proposed North-South
Freeway in Taiwan and (b) a detailed project
preparation for one section thereof. The amount
is US $500,000 representing the foreign exchange cost involved. Of this sum, US $100,000
is being provided as a grant, and the balance of
US $400,000 as a loan to the Republic of China
for a period of 10 years (including a grace
fs). The agreement was signed
on 30 November 1968 in Taipei.

The use of highway transport in Taiwan has
risen markedly in recent years. During 1953-67,
the volume of passenger traffic by highways
increased at an annual average rate of 12 per
cent and freight traffic by 18 per cent. During
the same period, the growth of rail transport
averaged annually 7 per cent for passengers
and 5 per cent for freight. In terms of total

 

 

 

volume of traffic, however, the railways still
account for nearly one half of total passenger
traffic, and about three-fourths of total freight
traffic. The further development of highways and
railways in Taiwan is considered essential to
cope with the rising tempo of growth in the
fields of commerce, industry and agriculture.

The proposed four-lane Freeway is intended
to facilitate fast-moving, tong distance traffic
through the western plain of Taiwan and it is
envisaged in four sections. The first two sections
in the north and the fourth section in the
extreme south will serve three important cities—
Taipei, Tainan and Kaohsiung; the third segment which will pass through more sparsely
populated areas will account for the greatest
length of the highway.

The feasibility study for the proposed Freeway
will be undertaken by a team of engineering
experts and economists who will assess the
traffic potential of the entire project, the
routing and type of highway needed, the
anticipated economic and financial returns and
the patterns of priorities and phasing. The
engineering study wiil be in respect of the
northern section between Erchung and Chungli.

ii. A loan of US$10.2 million to the Chinese
Petroleum Corporation (CPC) was approved
on 19 December 1968. The loan is intended to
meet the major part of the foreign exchange
requirements of a plant for the production of
Dimethyl! Terephthalate (DMT) ‘and is guaranteed by the Republic of China. The relevant
loan documents were signed at the Bank’s
headquarters on 27 December 1968.

The loan is for a term of 12 years, including
a grace period of three years.

The CPC, which is a wholfy-owned government corporation, was established in 1946
for the purpose of supplying various petroleum
products. The activities of CPC include the
exploration and production, the refining and
manufacturing, and the distribution and marketing of gas, petroleum products and petro-chemicals. CPC has been entrusted by the
Government with the main task of developing
petrochemical complexes based on oil and
natural gas. The development of the petrochemical industry is closely linked with overall
industrial development and export promotion
programs. The Government's policy stresses
the production of feedstocks and intermediates
which are used in the manufacture of synthetic
fibers and other upgraded petrochemical
products.

The project to which the loan has been

applied comprises the construction and start-up
of a plant for the manufacture of 26,400
metric tons per year of DMT—an intermediate
for the production of polyester fiber. The
installation, which will be sited at CPC's
Kaohsiung refinery, will also have built-in
provisions for future production (with minimum
plant additions) of 12-13,000 metric tons per
year of a second product known as Pure
Terephthalic Acid (PTA). Both DMT and PTA
are intermediate chemicals used in the production of polyethylene terephthalate, a polyester which can be spun into synthetic fibers
Known by their trade names of Dacron,
Terylene and Tetoron. The project is expected
to be completed by December 1970 and
commercial operations are scheduled. to start
by January 1971.

It is estimated that, of the total project cost
of US$23 million, about US$15.5 million
represents the foreign exchange component.
The Bank’s financial contribution will be
US $10.2 million. The balance of the foreign
exchange component and the local cost component will be made available by the Government.

CPC plans to organize a subsidiary to be
responsible for the operation and management,
of its petrochemical business including the
proposed DMT Project. The relationship between the borrower and its subsidiary will be
established in a manner satisfactory to the
Bank.

The project, economically viable in itself, is
expected to aid in the promotion of certain
avenues of regional co-operation decided upon
by the Republics of China and Korea at the
Fourth Sino-Korean Ministerial Level Economic
Co-operation Conference held in July 1968.
Under the proposed co-operative effort, both
the Republic of China and the Republic of
Korea will seek to develop economic and
mutually complementary productive capacity
in respect of petrochemical-based intermediates
for synthetic fibres and to develop joint
markets for these products between the two
countries. This project and a caprolactam plant
planned for Korea are the first projects involved.

INDONESIA

As stated in the Annual Report for 1967, a
Mission was sent to Indonesia in October 1967
to study and make recommendations on appropriate measures to improve food production
and food availability during the current stabilization phase in that country. In January 1968,
the Mission’s report was made available to the
Government of Indonesia. Subsequently the
Government initiated action in several areas,
including establishment of an appropriate ratio
with respect to cost of rice production inputs
and price of outputs, steps for stockpiling of
tice, the progressive decontrol of rice mills, the
provision of greater funds to extend credit to
farmers and the adoption of a modified price
policy for the urban distribution of rice.

In June 1968, acting on other recommendations in the Report, the Government of indonesia
requested the Bank for further technica! assistance in the field of agricultural development,
and for a technical mission to study the
Indonesian rural credit system. Oh 30 July

"11968, the Board of Directors approved the
furnishing of the technical assistance requested,
at an estimated cost of US $230,000.

The technical assistance program involved
action by the Bank in three directions. First,
the Bank has provided an agricultural economist
as Advisor to the Depariment of Agriculture
for a period of approximately eighteen months.
He is advising the Department on economic
policies pertaining to the production and
distribution of foodstuffs, especially rice, and
the inputs required for production of foodstuffs,
and on the formulation and evaluation of
project proposals in the Department, especiaily
those for submission to other agencies including
potential foreign contributors.

Second, a team of two experts—one crop

expert familiar with soil fertility problems and

with integrated high-yield rice production
techniques and one water management expert
with proficiency in irrigation and rice agronomy
—is advising the Department of Agriculture on
specific aspects of its program to raise food
production. These experts are to render technical
advice over a period of eighteen months
specifically to the Director of Extension on the
planning, preparation and operation of the rice
production program.

Third, a team of five experts was provided to
conduct a survey of the indonesian rural credit
system, including the role of co-operatives.
This team completed its field work in December
and its Report was forwarded to the Government of Indonesia in January 1969.

KOREA

i. A loan of US $6.8 million to the Republic of
Korea for the purpose of financing the foreign
exchange cost of the Seou/-inchon Expressway

was approved on 3 September 1968. The loan
is for a term of 15 years with repayments
commencing in February 1972. The loan
documents were signed at the Bank’s headquarters on 16 September 1968.

Due to rapid expansion of the national
economy in recent years, a major bottleneck
has developed in the transportation field in
Korea. The present highway system in the
Republic is underdeveloped, with only 1,934
kms. of paved road or 6 per cent of the total
highway system. The Government increased
the annual highway budget for the Second
Five-Year Plan period (1966-1971) from the
original Won 6 billion (US$21.9 million) to
Won 18 billion (US $65.7 million). Highway
passenger and freight traffic during the 1956-66
period increased by 19 per cent and 16 per cent
respectively. It is expected that this combined
traffic will increase at an annual rate of 15-20
per cent during the Second Five-Year Pian
period.

The purpose of the Seoul-Inchon Expressway
is to meet the needs of road transportation
between the nation’s capital and targest city,
Seoul, and its primary port, Inchon. Seoul,
Inchon and the area along the Expressway
route contain some 16 per cent of the nation’s
population, and 36 per cent of the nation's
industrial area, and further concentration in the
tegion is expected to occur in the future. In
view of the limited further capacity of existing
roads and the fact that the railway is already
operating at full capacity, the Expressway is
well located to meet a rapidly growing need for
increased road transportation facilities. In addition, extra road transport demand will be
created by the modernization and expansion of
Inchon port facilities now in progress.

The joan from the Bank is intended to finance
the foreign exchange component of the Expressway, which is designed as a 29.9 kilometer,
four-lane, limited access highway, to be
operated as a toll road. The total cost of the
project is estimated to be US $18.1 million. TheConstruction of the Seoul-tnchon Expressway in progress. A Bank toan of
$6.8 mitlion is being used by the Republic of Korea to meet the foreign exchange
cost of this project which involves the construction of @ 29.9 kilometer,
four-fene, limited access highway. to be operated as @ tolf road.toll structure at present proposed is designed
to repay the construction, operation and
maintenance costs over a seventeen-year period.
The annual financial return on investment for
a twenty-year period is estimated at 9 per cent.

The Expressway was partly opened for
traffic on 21 December 1968 and is expected
to be completed by June 1970.

ii, A request by the Government of the
Republic of Korea for technical assistance to
the Agriculture and Fishery Development Corporation (AFDC) was approved on 6 February
1968. The AFDC was set up in November 1967
with a capital of Won 5 billion (US$18.5
million) to be subscribed entirely by the
Government over a period of time.

The technical assistance mission was to
tender advice and assistance regarding the
institutional framework and organization of the
AFDC and to assist in identifying and formulating projects which could be developed to
appraisal standards in the fields of fish marketing
with particular reference to refrigeration; livestock development including the development
of marketing facilities; vegetable production
and marketing; and other projects which might
hold out prospects for immediate development
in agriculture and fisheries.

Mission members were aiso asked to assist
the AFDC in the preparation of appropriate
proposals for consideration by the Bank for
financing of specific projects in the field of
agricultural and fisheries development.

The foreign exchange cost of this assistance as

“approved Was estimated at US $66,000. The

local cost incurred is being borne by the
Government of Korea.

As a result of this technical assistance effort,
a proposal for a refrigeration project for
fisheries has been developed and is under consideration by the Bank. Other projects which
may prove suitable for consideration by the
Bank or other external financing sources are in
the course of preparation. The institutional

aspect of this technical assistance effort and
the work of individual specialists are expected
to be completed by the end of March 1969.

LAOS

In April 1968 the Royal Government of Laos
drew the attention of the Bank to the need for
the preparation of a program for the /ntegrated
development of agriculture in the Vientiane
Plain to enable the full utilization of the benefits
expected from the construction of the Nam
Ngum hydro-electric and irrigation project.
Following discussions between the Bank and
the Laotian authorities, a technical assistance
program was approved on 3 September 1968
at a cost of approximately US $221,000.

The Nam Ngum project involves estabfishment of .a dam on the Nam Ngum river which
will create a reservoir of approximately 8.5
billion cubic meters in gross capacity and
3.8 billion in net storage. The reservoir will
promote irrigation, flood control and navigation
improvement and, further, will serve to generate
power. A distribution net work will supply
energy from the power station to pumping
stations and irrigation systems located throughout the Vientiane Plain. With international
assistance, the construction of the Nam Ngum
project is expected to be completed by 1972.

The technical assistance program approved
by this “Bank is intended to aid thé” Laotian
authorities in planning the utilization of the
benefits from the Nam Ngum project. Experts
in various disciplines relevant to integrated
agricultural development will study the conditions in the Vientiane Plain. The experts will
submit appropriate ‘recommendations and
specific projects which will have to be elaborated, studied or implemented by stages in an
integrated manner prior to 1972 as well asA typical section of ihe Vientiane landscape with the spire af the That Luang
Tempie as # backdrop. The Bank is assisting the Government of Laos in the

preparation of an integrated agricultural development program for the Vientiane
Plain.during a 10-year period thereafter. Field work
commenced in January 1969 and the various
reports are expected to be completed by
June 1963.

MALAYSIA

A loan equivalent to US$7.2 million to the
Government of Malaysia for financing the
foreign exchange cost of the development of
Penang State Water Supply was approved on
19 September 1968. The loan documents were
signed at the Bank’s headquarters on 23
September 1968. The borrower is the Federal
Government of Malaysia and the State of
Penang acts as executing agency. The loan is
for a term of 20 years with repayments commencing after five years.

The present water supply system of the
State of Penang serves about 75 per cent of its
present population of 803,000 which includes
the City of George Town, the second largest
city in the country (population 370,000). In
spite of recent improvements and additions to
the system, the present reliable supply of
approximately 30 million gallons per day (MGD)
is falling short of demand. The population of
Penang has been increasing at 4 per cent per
annum in recent years; at the same time,
industrial development is having an increasing
impact on the demand situation. On the basis
of a feasibility study commissioned by the
State in 1966 and compieted toward the end of
1967, a long-range development plan has been
prepared which proposes to meet the anticipated
increase in demand up to the year 2000 in
three stages.

The works to be designed and constructed in
the first stage include a barrage across the
River Muda, intake works and pumping stations,

supply canal, water treatment works and pumps,
transmission mains including a separate line for
connection to the island of Penang and a storage
reservoir. Water will be transferred from Butterworth on the mainland to the island by means
of submarine pipelines. The various structures
will be built so as to facilitate future economical
increases in capacity in the second and third
stages. The works are expected to be in
operation by 31 December 1971.

The construction, operation and maintenance
of the water supply system in Penang is ihe
responsibility of the State Public Works Department, except within the City of George
Town which is responsible for its own water
supply, and has its own City Water Department.
Approximately two-thirds of the water supply
produced by the State from its own system will
be sold in bulk by the State to the City.

The total cost of the project is estimated at
M $42.4 million (US$13.7 million) of which
approximately half will be in foreign exchange
and will be financed by the Bank loan. The local
currency costs will be financed by the Federal
Government which has agreed to make loan
funds available to the State on terms and conditions satisfactory to the Bank. The proceeds
of the Bank’s loan will be relent by Malaysia to
the State. Disbursement of the loan is expected
to take place over the period 1969-71.

NEPAL

i. A request by the Government of Nepal for
technical assistance in preparing a project for
the development of its air transport system was
approved on 21 November 1968, involving 4.
grant of US $66,000.

This technical assistance, which was fe-g Water Supply Project is being

The foreign exchenge cost of the Penan,

fii

Government of Malaysia

ition to the

inanced by the Bank with a loan of $7.2 mi

inter-state river winding

an

The source of water supply will be the River Muda,
HS way through the states of Kedah and Penang.18

quested with a view to seeking a loan from the
Bank in the future, covers the formulation of an
investment program during 1969-71 for the
improvement of airports, airfields, ground communication and navigation aids; for the technical examination of the best manner of replacement of aircraft; and for the related
organization improvements that may be necessary. In view of the very specialized expertise
required for this type of study, the Bank
arranged with the International Civil Aviation
Organization for its collaboration in carrying out
the study, which began in January 1969 and
is to be finished in about five months.

Transport constitutes one of the weakest
links in Nepal's primarily agricultural economy,
with the difficult terrain setting a limit, both in
terms of financial outlays and time involved, to
the expansion of roads and railways. Although
successive studies by international agencies
and foreign consultants have underlined the
crucial importance of air transport in Nepal's
economy, the domestic airline has been seriously
handicapped by the lack of well-equipped airports and modern terminal facilities, and by
the problem of rising operational costs due to
difficulty in replacing its fleet of old-model
aircraft. It-is expected that projects based on
this study will yield substantial economic and
social benefits to Nepal.

ii. In response to a request from the Government of Nepal in June 1968, the Bank approved
on 3 September 1968, a technical assistance
program involving a grant of approximately
US $35,000 to study the organization and
operation of the Agricultural Development Bank
of Nepa/ and to advise the Government on
measures necessary to strengthen the Bank in
the discharge of its functions.

The Agricultural Development Bank, which
forrnally came into existence in January 1968
through the reconstitution of the former Cooperative Bank, is the main source of agricultural
credit and finance in Nepal. The future of

agriculture in the country is therefore closely
linked with the Bank's sound organization and
healthy growth.

A mission consisting of four experts in various
aspects relevant to agricultural development
banking carried out the field work involved in
this program over a period of two months
beginning in October 1968. The experts studied
the credit needs for the development of
agriculture in Nepal, the role of the Agricultural
Development Bank vis-a-vis other sources of
credit in the country, the requirements of staff
and organization of the Bank, the improvements
necessary in accounting, training and branch
Management and the improvement of procedures for the appraisal and processing of loan
applications and for supervision of implementation. The report of the mission was completed
in December and sent to the Government of
Nepali.

PAKISTAN

A loan equivalent to US$10 million to the
Industrial Development Bank of Pakistan (IDBP)
was approved on 12 December 1968. The !oan
is guaranteed by the Government of the Islamic
Republic of Pakistan, Loan documents were
signed at the Bank’s headquarters on 16
December 1968.

The loan is for a maximum period of 15 years,
including a grace period not exceeding three
years from the date when the corresponding
amounts are credited to the loan account. The
loan is expected to be fully committed within a
period of two years from its effective date and
to be disbursed in three years.

The IDBP, an institution in which the
Government of Pakistan has a 51 per cent
shareholding, is one of the two principal4

industrial development banks in Pakistan. After
a rapid growth during 1961/62—1965/66, the
rate of increase in the IDBP’s foreign currency
loans progressively diminished in 1966/67 and
1967/68, due chiefly to inadequate loanable
resources in foreign currency. In this context,
the IDBP obtained a loan from the Bank to
augment its foreign exchange resources to
meet the medium and long-term credit requirements of small and medium-scale industries in
the private sector for the coming two years.
The authorized capital of IDBP is Rs. 60
million (US $12.6 million), of which Rs. 30
million (US $6.3 million) has been paid-in and
an additional Rs. 10 million (US $2.1 million)
was paid in early in 1969. IDBP’s lending resources in rupees are derived from capital and
reserves, advances from the Government, credit
from the State Bank of Pakistan, term deposits
received, and funds available from repayments of
outstanding loans. Foreign currency resources at
IDBP’s disposal come largely from the Government in the form of alfocations from lines of
external credit arranged by the Government.

PHILIPPINES

i On 25 July 1968, the Bank approved a
technical assistance grant of US $225,000 for
site selection and project formulation for a
fisheries port in Manila Bay.

The decision to provide technical assistance
derived from a review by the Bank of a request
from the Government of the Philippines late in
1967 for a loan for the construction and
equipment of a fisheries port at North Harbor
in Manila Bay. Examination of the request
indicated that, on economic grounds, there was
prima facie justification for a fisheries port as
an integral part of the development program

drawn up by the Philippine Fisheries Commission. However, there were some uncertainties regarding the location of the fisheries port
and the ancillary facilities. Accordingly, the
Government of the Philippines agreed with the
Bank that, before coming to a decision on the
proposed investment, the technical alternatives
available should be fully explored. The Bank,
thereupon, was requested to make available
technical assistance for the examination of the
alternatives and for the formulation of a
project based on the results of the examination.
Consultants have been engaged for carrying
out the technical examination and project
formulation and the services of a supervising
engineer have also been made available to help
in carrying out the study. The work is expected
to be completed by the end of November 1969.
In light of the Government's review of the
results of the study, proposals may come up for
Bank financing for a fisheries port facility in
Manila Bay.

ii. -A grant of $105,000 to the Philippine
Government for technical assistance to the

National Srrigation Administration (NIA) in the ¢

field of irrigation water management improvement was approved in June 1968.

Out of 3.1 mitlion hectares under rice in the
Philippines, only 680,000 hectares (22 per
cent) during the wet season and 280,000
hectares (9 per cent) during the dry season are
irrigated. This reflects both the inadequacy of
irrigation facilities and the need for improvements
in water management. The Philippine authorities
have recently strengthened their efforts to
increase both service areas and efficiency in
the existing irrigation systems in the country.
The Government has provided financial resources sufficient to complete twenty-two
unfinished projects and also to start eight new
irrigation projects. The NIA also has been
actively engaged in an extensive rehabilitation
program to improve water conveyance in deteriorated systems. in addition, the NIA hasA typical nee hetd in the Angat River Irugation System (ARIS) m the province
of Butacan, Pinippines, where a Bank tectinical assistance team has been

active in water management planning and operation, fietd studies and
demonstrationThe Bank's technical assistance to the Philippines ini the field of water management is @ type of activity which fas received considerable emphasis in the
Asian Agricultural Survey Report Since the water management project started
jn July 1968 in two selected areas. severe! water measuring devices including
Parshall fumes (above) and “V-Notch weir” (below) and most of the water
contro! devices and farm ditches have been completed.The Bank's technical assistance team in ARIS has been taining Fittipino
farmers in modern methods of transplanting paddy seedtings Training of
technical personnel has also been undertaken.undertaken a pilot project scheme to improve
the existing water management and water use
in eight representative irrigation systems located
in different parts of the country. The results of
the pilot project scheme will subsequentiy
benefit other NIA irrigation systems. it was
tecognized that there would be a shortage,
during the initial stage of the pilot project, of
well-trained and experienced specialists in the
field of water management to participate in the
planning of the field operations and in the
training of local technical personnel. The
technical assistance program of the Bank is
intended to meet this shortage.

The technical assistance activity is concentrated in two selected areas in the Angat River
Irrigation System and the Pefiaranda River
Irrigation System, both in Central Luzon, and
covers water management planning and operation, technical field studies and demonstrations
as well as training of technical personnel. In the
other six pilot areas, the scope of assistance will
be limited to general technical advice on
planning, field operation and extension of the
regular local programs.

The technical assistance mission, which
began its work in August 1968, is composed of
a senior irrigation. engineer, a water management expert, an irrigation agronomist, an
irrigation economist and a soii and land use
expert. The duration of the project has been
fixed at one year in order to cover both the wet
and dry seasons.

THAILAND

A loan equivalent to US$5 million to the
Industrial Finance Corporation of Thailand
{IFCT) was approved on 23 January 1968. The

Cattection of ferro-concrete pile columns et The Thai Cardboard Co., Ltd,

one of the beneficiaries of {FCT subloans.

loan is guaranteed by the Government of
Thailand and is repayable in full on or before
31 December 1983. Loan documents were
signed on 25 January 1968 at the Bank's
headquarters.

The {FCT was established in 1959 under the
Industrial Finance Corporation Act to assist
industrial activities in Thailand mainly by extending medium and long-term loans, underwriting shares and securities and guaranteeing
loans. In 1964, the IFCT secured Joans from
Kreditanstalt, fuer Wiederaufbau of Germany
amounting to DM 11 million and from the
International Bank for Reconstruction and
Development in an amount of US $2.5 million.

The rate of economic growth of Thailand has
been impressive in recent years and the scope
of industrial development is being enlarged.
The share of industry——practically all private—
in the GNP is expected to increase from 12.8
per cent to 21.4 per cent over the period
1966-1971. Apart from the Governmental
Smail Loans Board, the IFCT is the only
institution in Thailand which provides medium
and long-term loans for private industrial

 

2324

investment. The rising demand for medium and
long-term loans is bound to cause expansion
of the [FCT’s operations.

The Bank's loan is designed to help the [FCT
augment its foreign exchange resources and is
available for utilization until 31 December 1972.
As of 31 December 1968, seven subloans
aggregating US $1,152,575 had been approved
and US $700,608 had been disbursed by the
Bank. The approved subloans include financing
for ice factory and cold storage plants, a
cardboard and a strawboard factory, a cotton
mill and a kaolin processing plant.

VIET-NAM

In tesponse to a request from the Republic
of Viet-Nam, the Bank agreed on 2 July 1968
to provide technical assistance in two parts to
development financing institutions in Viet-Nam
at an estimated cost of US $89,000.

The institutions primarily concerned are the
Industrial Development Center (IDC), the
Société Financiére pour le Développement de
KIndustrie au Viét-Nam (SOFIDIV), and the
Refinancing Fund for Industrial Development
(RFID) of the National Bank of Viet-Nam.

The first part of the program provides for a
team which, taking into account the need to
promote over a period of time industrial growth
in the country, is to study and report on:

{a} the Government institutional framework
and the procedures for handiing investment
projects, together with the possibilities for
improvement of the investment climate in
the context of the overall economic setting ;

{b) the work of the IDC and the desirable steps
to be taken to strengthen its role as a
development financing institution ;

{c) the work of the SOFIDIV and the steps

which should be taken to strengthen its
role as a financial institution;

(d) the work of the RFID, especially in terms
of its relationship with the other institutions;

{e) the division of labor among the financial!
institutions ; and

(f) the possibility of advising the Agricultura!
Development Bank on the establishment
of a system of rural banking similar to that
established in the Philippines, if such a
scheme proves advisable and feasible in
Viet-Nam.

The team is to be composed of four members

with expertise in development banking, in
dustrial economics, agricultural and rural banking and legal and administrative matters and is

scheduled to begin work early in January 1969.

The other part of the program covers the
provision of three senior operational advisors,
each to be assigned to one of the three abovementioned industrial financing institutions, with
the foliowing functions in respect of the
institution ‘concerned :

(1) help the Management in its project
appraisals, in particular in respect to the
overall economic and financial evaluation
of project proposals ;

(2) -advise and train the staff on project
appraisal techniques, on security requirements, on procurement and disbursement
procedures, on end-use supervision of the
utilization of loans and investments and
project implementation ;

{3) advise and heip the Management in taking
necessary action in cases where the enduse supervision and follow-up of loans
and investments suggest that such action
is called for; and

(4) advise the Management on policy matters
and on any day-to-day work as appropriate.

These advisors will be assigned for a period
of one year, subject to extension if necessary.

They are expected to take up their assignments

in April/May 1969.“THE PIPELINE’

In dealing with each investment request, the
Bank has to be flexible in its approach. Past
experience has shown that, where preliminary
work on feasibility studies and project preparation has been effectively carried out, relatively
little time is needed to obtain a Board decision.
In other cases, the Bank has had to suit its
approach to the particular requirements of the
situation, either by offering specific technical
assistance in the preparation of the project or
by associating its staff at a fairly early stage of
project formulation in the country concerned.
The proximity of the Bank to the developing
member countries has been of great benefit in
facilitating quicker persona! contacts and the
exchange of ideas and has thus enhanced the
capacity of the Bank to deal with proposals.
Such personal contacts have also served to
promote a useful dialogue between the Bank

and member countries in building up 4 pipeline
of future Bank projects. Thus, included in the
pipeline are- projects and programs in the
following fields;

{a) area development, aiming primarily at the
improvement of agricultural productivity
but also including, as ancillaries, the
extension of roads and the setting up of
subsidiary off-season employment opportunities ;

{b) irrigation;

(c) rehabilitation or the setting up of plantation
industries and related processing facilities ;

{d) expansion of fishing activities ;

(e) lending to intermediary institutions;

(f) specific export-oriented or import-subStitutive industrial activities; and

(g) infrastructure development.

2626

LOANS APPROVED DURING 1968

 

BORROWER

industrial Finance Corporation

of Thailand

Central Bank of Ceylon

Republic of Korea

Malaysia

Republic of China

Industrial Development Bank
of Pakistan

Chinese Petroleum Corporation

PROJECT

Financing industrial
enterprises

Modernization of tea
factories

Seoul-inchon
Expressway

Penang Water Supply

Feasibility Study of
North-South Freewayt

Financing small and
medium-scale industries in private sector

Dimethyl terephthalate (DMT) manufacture

AMOUNT
US$

$5 million

$2 million

$6.8 million

$7.2 million

$0.4 million

$10 million

$10.2 million

DATE
APPROVED

23 Jan.

2 July

3 Sept.

19 Sept.

19 Nov.

12 Dec.

13 Dec.

TERM *

12

15

15

20

10

15

12

years

years

years

years

years

years

years

INTEREST

83%

63%

62%

63%

nr rrr ore nnn

* Inclusive of grace period

* Cartes interest at the rate prevalent at the time of crediting the loan account.

3 In addition, a sum of US $100,000 was provided as a grant (see Republic of

China next page).

rr oY SEYCOUNTRY

PROJECT PREPARATION

Republic of China

Nepal

Philippines

ADVISORY AND OPERATIONAL

(Indonesia

Republic of Korea

Laos

Nepal

Philippines

Republic of Viet-Nam

TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE APPROVED DURING 1968

PROJECT

Feasibility Study of North-South
Freeway

Air Transport System Development

Fisheries Port Construction in Manila
Bay

Advisors to Ministry of Agriculture
Rural Credit Survey

Agriculture & Fishery Development
Corporation *

integrated Agricultural Development
Program for Vientiane Plain

Advisors to Agricultural Development Bank of Nepal

Water Management

Development Financing Institutions
{a} Technical Assistance Mission
{b} Assignment of Advisors

* lncludes project preparation (see page 14).

AMOUNT
US$

$100,000

$66,000

$225,000

$170,000
$60,000

$66,000

$221,000

$35,000

$105,000

$19,000
$79,000

 

DATE
APPROVED

19 Nav.

21 Nov.

25 July |

36 July
30 July

6 Feb.

15 Oct.
3 Sept.
20 June

2 July
2 July

NR 27B. SURVEYS AND
OTHER REGIONAL
ACTIVITIES

(i) ASIAN AGRICULTURAL
SURVEY

The Annual Report for 1967 discussed the
Asian Agricultural Survey which began its
field work in July 1967. The Survey Team
completed its work by the middle of February
1968 and produced a Regional Report and
twelve sectional reports containing detailed
observations on the salient aspects of agricultural growth in the region. The Consultative
Committee on the Survey met from 26 February
to 2 March 1968 and prepared observations,
collectively and individually, on the reports
prepared by the Survey Team. The Survey
Reports and the observations of the Consultative Committee were placed before the
Board of Directors and, pursuant to a decision
of the Board, were made available to member
governments for distribution.

In view of the wide interest in the Survey, it
was decided to publish the reports and the
observations of the Consultative Committee.
The publication became available in February
1969 in both hard-bound and paper-bound
editions.

The Bank has considered various aspects of

the recommendations in the Survey reports
such as the Bank’s investment policy in the
field of agriculture and the potential role of the
Bank in strengthening agricultural research in
the region and the feasibility of undertaking a
study on fertilizer production on a regional
basis. Consideration is also being given to the
possible organization of a meeting of agricultural development banks in the region in view
of the very important place assigned to
agricultural credit in the Survey.

From the point of view of the Bank's
operations, the Survey has yielded perspectives
of great value in the formulation and appraisal
of projects in agriculture and related activities.
In particular, it has established a basis for
considering the application of modern technology to agricultural production in the region,
taking into account the unique factors which
apply to each country.

A number of developing member countries
have expressed an interest in bilateral discussions with the Bank on the findings of the
Survey. These discussions have been conceived of as covering both the evolution of
policies conducive to agricultural growth and
the identification of specific investment programs in agriculture and related fields. The
first such discussion, held in Thailand, was
regarded as helpful both to the Thai authorities
and to the Bank on both counts. Discussions
with other countries are being scheduled for
1968 and it is the intention of the Bank to be
responsive to any further requests for such
discussions,

As another follow-up activity to the Survey, a
Regional Seminar on Agriculture is planned to
be held in Sydney at the time of the Second
Annual Meeting of the Bank. It is envisaged
that this Seminar will provide a forum where
policy-making agricultural and financial officials
from developing member countries and experts
in agricultural development will be able to
discuss certain main themes emerging from
the Survey.(ii) REGIONAL TRANSPORT
SURVEY

In December 1967 the Government of
Malaysia, acting on behalf of eight Southeast
Asian countries (Brunei, {fndonesia, Laos,
Malaysia, the Philippines, Singapore, Thailand
and the Republic of Viet-Nam), requested the
Bank to undertake a Regional Transport Survey
of Southeast Asia. The request stemmed from
a decision taken at a Conference of the Governments concerned in Kuala Lumpur in September
1967 where it was indicated that

“While the Survey should have, as one of

its specific objectives, recommendations on

an investment program for regional transport
projects in the medium and long terms, it
should have as its underlying motivation the
development of transport in the region along
lines which wilt maximize the possibilities for
progressive economic integration of the
countries in the area.”
The Board of Directors, in February 1968,
authorized necessary action to evolve the
framework and terms of reference of the proposed Regional Transport Survey, taking into
account the existing transport situation and
plans for future transport development in
relation to realistic prospects of overall economic
growth of the subregion. Other sources of
external aid were to be explored, to the extent
possible, in respect of the provision of expertise, advice on the work program and
possible participation in financing the Survey;
close consultations with the Co-ordinating
Committee set up by the Kuala Lumpur conference were to continue. The framework,
together with estimated costs, was worked out
on this basis and on 17 September 1968, the
Board of Directors agreed that the Bank should
undertake the Regional Transport Survey. The

Board of Directors also authorized the setting
up of a Steering Committee of high-ranking
experts which, in the first instance, was to
prepare the draft terms of reference of the
Survey, taking into account the proposals
placed before the Board and its comments
thereon.

The Steering Committee, membership of
which is set out in Appendix 9, had its first
meeting in Manila from 9 to 13 December 1968
and submitted its recommendations to the
Bank on the draft terms of reference of the
Survey. In accordance with the Board’s decision of September 1968, the Bank has taken
action to obtain from qualified consultants
detailed technical proposals and firm estimates
of costs. The proposed terms of reference of
the Survey, together with estimates of costs
and possibilities of participation by other
organizations, are to be considered early in
1969 by the Board of Directors.

(iii) REGIONAL CONFERENCE
OF DEVELOPMENT
BANKS IN ASIA

The Annual Report for 1967 referred to the
suggestion at the Third Regional Conference
of Development Banks in Asia held in Tokyo
in September 1966 that the Bank should
assume future responsibility for convening such
conferences. After eliciting the opinions of
individual national development banks in the
region, and after careful consideration of the
role that this bank could play in convening such
conferences, the Bank has undertaken to make
arrangements to hold the Fourth Regional
Conference of Development Banks in Asia in
Manila in July 1969.

2930

A specific theme has been selected in consultation with the participants in previous conferences of development banks: the exploration
of the experience and problems encountered
by development banks in respect of the
identification, formulation, evaluation and implementation of investment projects. Case
studies will be prepared on the basis of which
a theme paper will be provided to participants
in advance of the conference. The World
Bank group and the Fiscal and Financial
Branch of the UN Secretariat and the Organisation for Economic Co-operation and Development have shown interest in the Conference
and are expected to participate. Invitations to
participate are being sent to institutions in
hnon-regional member countries which have
an interest in development banking in Asia.

(iv) OTHERS

The Bank held preliminary discussions during
1968 with the United Nations Economic
Commission for Asia and the Far East concerning an Asian Industrial Survey proposed by
that body’s Asian Industrial Development
Council. Also, the proposed establishment of
the Asian Vegetable Development and Research Centre in Taiwan has been discussed
with the countries concerned.

C. RELATIONS WITH OTHER
INTERNATIONAL
ORGANIZATIONS

During 1968 the inter-institutional cooperation with other international organizations
referred to in the Annual Report for 1967 was

sustained. Certain specific aspects of this cooperation are enumerated below.

The Board of Governors at its First Annual
Meeting approved a resolution authorizing the
Bank to enter into a co-operative arrangement
with the Food and Agriculture Organization
(FAO). This co-operative arrangement was
recognized to be interim in nature and provided,
essentially, for inter-institutiona! co-operation
in specific activities. The FAO has been
extremely co-operative in carrying out the
agreement and has provided, so far, twelve
experts whose employment has aggregated
approximately 14 man-months. While the cooperative arrangements contemplate a periodic
review, the first of which was due by the end
of 1968, it was not possible to carry it out
before the end of the year. However, the review
will be held as soon as possible in 1969. in
addition to activities under the co-operative
arrangements, the two institutions have maintained other contacts including the exchange
of documentation and the attendance by Bank
officials at important meetings heid under
FAC auspices.

On 23 January 1968, the Board of Directors
approved participation with the World Bank in
studies relating to the external public debt
position and prospects of regional developing
member countries. This program involves joint
arrangements for the collection of data and
their analysis, with the World Bank compiling
the material obtained for both institutions, and
mutual exchanges on topics of interest. This
collaboration has been most-useful to the
Bank in preparing country reports and in toan
operations. The two banks are in frequent
contact on the implementation of this program
and had an opportunity of full discussion
thereon during the Co-ordinating Meeting on
Economic Research held in Washington, D.C.
immediately following the annual meeting of
the World Bank in 1968,

The two banks have also maintained close
contact in respect of operational matters.Members of World Bank missions to regional!
developing member countries frequently call at
the Bank for consultations: The two banks also
have a regular exchange of general documentation and data relating to operational activities.
Further, field missions of the two banks in
individual member countries consult as frequently .as possible. .

The International Monetary Fund (IMF) has
continued to supply the Bank with information
on matters of mutual interest and this has
augmented the resource material available to
the Bank in the course of its operations. As in
the case of the World Bank, members of IMF
missions to developing member countries
frequently call at the Bank’s headquarters for
discussions.

The United Nations Economic Commission
for Asia and the Far East (ECAFE) has maintained its keen interest in the economic
development of the region and in assisting the
Bank to play a significant role in accelerating
this development. The sponsorship of an Asian
Industrial Survey. by the ECAFE, in which the
Bank's participation has been sought, has
already been mentioned. The ECAFE has also
been studying (in collaboration with the IMF)
the need for financial arrangements within the
region that may assist the promotion of intrategional trade. In the discussions held in the
ECAFE on this subject, a possible rote for the
ADB has been considered and the authorities
of ECAFE have extended invitations to the
Bank to send observers to these discussions.

The possibilities of such regional arrangements
are still under study by ECAFE and it is as yet
premature to venture any estimation as to what
role the Bank could play in such arrangements.
The Bank has also been represented through
observers at various meetings of the ECAFE.

Relationships with the United Nations Development Program (UNDP) have continued
to be useful. The Resident Representatives of
the UNDP in developing member countries
have been of great assistance to field missions
undertaken by the Bank in providing up-to-date
insight into local conditions. The UNDP continues to keep the Bank informed of its projected
activities in member countries, and it is expected that the UNDP meeting of Resident
Representatives in the region to be held in
Manila in February 1969 would provide an
excellent opportunity for a full.exchange of
views with the authorities of the UNDP.

A further step in inter-institutional cooperation was taken when, as mentioned
earlier, the International Civil Aviation Organization accepted the Bank’s invitation to cotlaborate in the implementation of a study of the
development of air transport facilities in Nepal.

it should also be added that when the
services of individual experts were sought in
constituting the Steering Committee for the
Regional Transport Survey, there was a ready
response from the World Bank, the United
Nations Conference on Trade and Development
and the Economic Commission for Asia and
the Far East.

31SPECIAL FUNDS OPERATIONSThe Bank’s Articles of Agreement envisage
lending on concessional terms from “Special
Funds” in.addition to conventional loans from
its capital resources and from borrowings.
Article 19 of the Agreement provides both for
a “set-aside” of up to 10 per cent of the
unimpaired paid-in capital for lending on
concessional terms and for the acceptance of
contributions of special funds. resources under
appropriate terms and for purposes consistent
with the. objectives of the Bank.

During 1968, the Board of Directors devoted
considerable attention to the preparation of a
framework of Rules and Regulations to cover
the administration and utilization of Special
Funds. These “Special Funds Rules and
Regulations” were formally adopted by the
Board of Directors on 17 September 1968. The
Rules and Regulations provide for “Consolidated Special Funds” of the Bank, under
which general heading there is provision for an
Agricultural Special Fund, a Multi-Purpose
Special Fund, a Technical Assistance Special
Fund and such other Special Funds as the Bank
may establish or accept from time to time. The
Rules and Regulations have been drafted so as
to apply both to special funds resources contributed to the Bank as well as to special funds
resources set-aside from the Bank's capital.

Although contributions were received in
December 1968 to the Agricultural Special
Fund and the Multi-Purpose Special Fund (see
Part IV B below) operations have been
financed to date only from the Technical
Assistance Special Fund. The jatter Fund was
formerly known as the ‘Technical Assistance
Contributions—Consolidated Account’ but,
with the adoption of the Special Funds Rules
and Regulations, appropriate steps were taken
to transform this Account into a Special Fund.

The Technical Assistance Contributions—
Consolidated Account was set up by the Board
of Directors in 1967 foliowing contributions
from the Governments of the United States and
the United Kingdom of funds for technical
assistance purposes. As discussed more fully
below, the Governments of the Federal Republic
of Germany, Japan and Canada made further

funds available for such purposes during 1968. *

The financial statements of the Technical
Assistance Special Fund accompanying this
Report show that contributed resources available as of the end of 1968 totalled US $515,949
while disbursements amounted to US $241,661.

Utilization of the resources contributed has
been concentrated upon providing experts, consultants or advisors for such technical assistance
activities as pre-investment and feasibility
studies, project appraisals, processing of loan
applications, and regional or country economic
and financial studies. A portion of these contributions was used for the purchase of library
materials. A list of the projects to which these
resources were applied appears on pages 64-65.

As the table on pages 64-65 shows, the
United States contribution has been used in
the provision of expert services for preparatory
work on the Regional Transport Survey
and for road, rurai credit, food production,
municipal water supply, and irrigation, including water management, projects in China,
Indonesia, Korea, Malaysia and the Philippines.
Similar services for projects in tea processing
machinery and rural credit in Ceylon and
Indonesia have been financed from United
Kingdom funds. Expert services for road
projects in China, Korea and Western Samoa
have been financed from funds made available
by the Federal Republic of Germany. The
contribution: from Japan has been used to
provide expert services for projects in fisheries,
irrigation, including water management, agriculture and agricultural and fisheries processing
industries in China, Indonesia, Korea and the
Philippines and also for preparatory work on
the Regional Transport Survey. The Canadian
contribution has been used to provide expert
services in connection with projects for the
development of fisheries and for the establishment of agricultural and fisheries processing
industries in Ceylon, China, Korea and the
Philippines and for the Regional Transport
Survey.

—_— eee

* The Benk also accepted contributions for the Technica) Assistance Special
Fund from the Government of Finland on 27 January 1969 and irom the
Government of Denmark on 4 February 1989,‘ADMINISTRATION AND ORGANIZATIONMEMBERSHIP

There were no changes in the membership
of the Bank during the year. Total membership
remained at thirty-two countries of which
nineteen are from the region of Asia and the
Far East and thirteen are from. outside the
region. There were, however, two developments of special interest:

CAMBODIA: It was reported in the Annual Report for 1967 that the Bank received advice on
18 September 1967 of Cambodia’s decision to
withdraw from membership in the Bank. In a
reply of the same date, the Bank drew attention
to the provision of Article 41.(2) of the Agreement which provides for a notice period of at
feast six months for withdrawal to become
effective. On 27 December 1968, the Minister
of Foreign Affairs of the Royal Government of
Cambodia informed the Bank of his Government’s decision to maintain its status as a
member of the Bank.

HONGKONG: As indicated in fast year’s Annual
Report, Hongkong had shown an interest in
becoming a member of the Bank. Discussions
were held with British and Hongkong authorities
during 1968 that encourage the expectation
that Hongkong will apply for membership in the
Bank in 1969.

BOARD OF GOVERNORS

There were several changes in the composition of the Board of Governors in 1968 and
the changes are shown in the list of Governors
and Alternate Governors as at the close of
1968 which appears-in Appendix 6.

At the invitation of the Philippine Government, the First Annual Meeting of the Board
of Governors was held in Manila from 4 to 6
April 1968. A list of the resolutions adopted at

the First Annual Meeting appears in Appendix 3. ~

The Board of Governors, at the First Annual
Meeting, authorized a procedure for determin
ing during 1968 the date and place of the |

Second Annual Meeting. Following the receipt
of an invitation from the Australian Government,
the Governors approved a recommendation that
the Second Annual Meeting take place in
Sydney from 10 to 12 April 1969.

BOARD OF DIRECTORS

The following changes took place in the

Board of Directors during 1968:

i. On 5 July, Mr. J. M. Garland (Australia)
resigned; Mr. F. R. Dalrymple {Alternate
Director appointed by Mr. Garland) exercised the functions of Director under the
provisions of Article 30 until the election of
Mr. R. J. Whitelaw on 31 December.

ii, Mr. M. Fukuda (Japan) appointed Mr.

Fumio Kawano as his Alternate with effect

from 30 August.

Mr. Zahiruddin Ahmed, Alternate, appointed

by Mr. C. Balmaceda (Pakistan and the

Philippines), died on 3 September when on

an official mission for the Bank to Pakistan.

Mr. Wazir Ali was appointed Alternate by

Mr. Balmaceda with effect from 4 December.

iv. Mr. B. Zagorin (United States) appointed
Mr. George R. Jacobs as his Alternate with
effect from 29 October (vice Mr. Herman H.
Barger who demitted office as Alternate on
8 April).

v. Mr. Byanti Kharmawan (Afghanistan, Cambodia, Ceylon, Indonesia, Laos and Nepal)
resigned on 20 December (pursuant to his
election as Executive Director of the International Monetary Fund); on 31 December,
Mr. R. A. Kartadjoemena was elected to fill
the vacancy so created, by unanimous vote
of all members concerned.

The Board of Directors adopted the following

Resolution on 5 September:

“The Board has learnt with the deepest
sorrow of the untimely passing away of Mr.
Zahiruddin Ahmed when on official duty of
the Bank at Karachi on 3 September 1968.

“It wishes to place on record its grateful

3536

recognition of the services rendered to this
Bank and to its Board of Directors by Mr.
Ahmed. it had in him a rare combination of
talent, experience and imaginative foresight,
qualities that made Mr. Ahmed’s contributions
deep in insight and profound in wisdom.

“It desires the President to submit to the
Governor for Pakistan and to Mr. Ahmed’s
family its own sense of loss and grief and its
respectful condolences.”

A list of Directors and Alternates as at the
close of the year appears in Appendix 7.

During the year, there were 58 meetings of
the Board of Directors, including both regular
and executive sessions. Apart from specific foan
and technical assistance proposals, matters
before the Board included: policy on lending
rates; commitment charge; procurement policy
and use of consultants; Special Funds Rules
and Regulations and offers of Special Funds;
investment policy; the application of Article 25
of the Articles of Agreement dealing with
maintenance of the value of the Bank’s
currency holdings; guidelines for the Bank’s
technical assistance operations; a Staff Retirement Plan for Bank personnel and the machinery
to implement it; the basic organization of the
Bank; and the Administrative Budget for the
Bank for 1969.

Article 30.1 (ii) of the Articles of Agreement
reads as follows:

“At the Second Annual Meeting of the
Board of Governors after its inaugural
meeting, the Board of Governors shall review
the size and composition of the Board of
Directors, and shall increase the number of
Directors as appropriate, paying special
regard to the desirability, in the circumstances
at that time, of increasing representation in
the Board of Directors of smaller less
developed member countries. Decisions under
this paragraph should be made by a vote of a
majority of the total number of Governors,
representing not less than two-thirds of the
total voting power of the members.”

The Board of Directors, in preparation for the
Second Annual Meeting of the Board of
Governors considered during the year the
various aspects involved in the above provision.

BASIC ORGANIZATION

The basic organization of the Bank as set up
when it came into being in 1966 provided for
the creation of a number of administrative departments and of two operational departments.
As between the two operational departments,
functions primarily relating to lending operations
were assigned to the Operations Department
and those relating to technical assistance and
economic studies were assigned to the Economic and Technical Assistance Department.
The Operations Department was organized into
three divisions, two of which were concerned
with the eastern and the western areas of the
region and the third with appraisal and technical
supervision of projects. The Economic and
Technica! Assistance Department was organized
into two divisions, namely, Technical Assistance
Division and Economic Division.

On the basis of experience gained so far and
with a view to gearing the Bank for an anticipated substantial increase in activities, a review
of the basic organization.of the Bank was
undertaken in the last quarter of 1968. This
review led to a decision to reorganize the two
operational departments during the course of
1969. Under this reorganization, a Projects Department will come into being which will absorb
the present division of the Operations Department concerned with project appraisal and a
substantial portion of the Technical Assistance
Division of the present Economic and Technical
Assistance Department. Also an Economic
Office will be set up to handie the basic and
special economic work of the Bank. The
Operations Department will be re-aligned to
serve as the focal point of inquiry and contact
with member countries in respect of both loans
and technical assistance. The Projects Department will provide experts and specialists for theprocessing of loans and the implementation
of technica! assistance projects. A further part
of the reorganization will provide the Operations
and the Projects Departments with senior level
staff as “Managers” whose function will be to
lead missions in project preparation, appraisal
and monitoring. /

Another change contemplated, and effected
on 1 January 1969, was the separation of the
Office of the Financial Advisor from the
Treasurer's Office (to be redesignated as the
Treasury Department). The Financial Advisor is
responsible for advising the President with
regard to bond issues and other borrowings
and for the investment of Bank funds not
needed in the current operations of the Bank.

RECRUITMENT

During the year, the Bank continued its efforts
to recruit competent professional staff. In
addition to the list of possible candidates that
resulted from earlier recruitment efforts, wide
publicity was given to the Bank’s interest in
recruitment of additional competent. staff.
Candidates were carefully screened and many
were subsequently interviewed during tours by
officials of the Bank. As a result, it has been
possible to build up the professional! staff of the
Bank, excluding the President and Vice President, from 55 at the beginning of year to 94
at the end of the year. St is anticipated that the
number of professional staff will reach 146 by
the end of 1969. Non-professional staff increased from 132 at the beginning of the year
to 203 at the end of 1968.

At the end of 1968, the professional staff of
the Bank was composed of persons from
sixteen regional and seven  non-regional
countries. The effort to establish and maintain
a broad-based. staff, with due regard to competence, will continue in 1969.

STAFF BENEFITS
The Staff Retirement Plan was approved by

the Board of Directors on 10 December 1968,

with retrospective effect from 24 November
1966, when the earliest staff appointments were
made. The Plan is supported by contributions
to a Pension Fund of 7 per cent of the salary
of each participant, with 14 per cent of the
total payroll on each pay date being contributed by the Bank. Benefits under the Plan
include retirement pensions for long service,
cash withdrawal benefits for shorter service,
disability pensions for incapacity to work due to
illness or injury and widows’ pensions and
children’s allowance if a staff member dies
during service in the Bank. The Regulations
adopted by the Board of Directors for the Staff
Retirement Plan are submitted separately for
review by the Board of Governors under
Section 11 of the By-Laws of the Bank.

PHILIPPINE CO-ORDINATING
COMMITTEE
The Philippine Co-ordinating Committee

continued to be most helpful in arranging
additional furnished office accommodation and
facilities and acting as a liaison body between
the Bank and the Department of Foreign Affairs
and other Philippine Government agencies. The
Committee is headed by Mr. Cornelio Balmaceda who is also a member of the Board of
Directors of the Bank. During 1968 the Committee provided the Bank with additional
office accommodation in the Amaigamated
Building and the Rufino Building in Ayala
Avenue, in close proximity to the Metropolitan
Building where the main office of the Bank is
located.

HEADQUARTERS BUILDING

Construction of the permanent headquarters
of the Bank on Jand provided by the Government
of the Phitippines on Roxas Boulevard in the
Greater Manila area, is proceeding under the
supervision of the Philippine Co-ordinating
Committee.

3738

ADMINISTRATIVE BUDGET

The Administrative Budget for 1969 was
approved by the Board of Directors on 10
December 1968 and a summary thereof appears
in Appendix 2. It provides for “internal administrative expenses” amounting to US $6.48
million and for “services to member countries”
amounting to US$1.75 million. The abstract
below gives comparative budget figures since
the Bank came into being. The figures in the

the technica! assistance services to member

countries {including regional activities). The

reasons for the change were mainly:

{a} Article 21 (vi) of the Articles of Agreement
empowers the Bank to charge expenditure
incurred in providing non-reimbursable
technical assistance against the net income
of the Bank. The new presentation will
make clear the amount of net income to

 

FINANCIAL ABSTRACT

1. Gross Income
2. internal Administrative Expenses

3. Expenses on Services to Member Countries including
regional activities

4. Total Administrative Budget

5. Surplus of Gross Income over internal Administrative
Expenses (1 minus 2)

6. Surplus of Gross Income over total Administrative
Expenses (1 minus 4}

in USS million

 

NOV. 1866 TO

DEC. 1967 1968 1969
ACTUAL BUDGET ACTUAL BUDGET
4.55 6.30 747 10.00
241% 5.21 3.56* 6.487
0.04 0.69 0.13 178t
2.45 5.90 3.69 8.23
2.44 1.09 3.61 3.52
2.10 0.40 3.48 197

 

 

* Includes exchange adjustments.

+ May bereduced on tha basis of utilization of technical assistance resources
contributed or which may be conwsbuted.

 

final column reflect the intensification of
activities and the preparations being made to
meet the increased responsibilities expected in
the coming year.

During the year a change was made in the
manner of presentation of the Budget in so far
as it relates to technical assistance. Previously
expenditure on “Services to Member Countries”
was incorporated as one item in the Bank’s
Administrative Budget. For 1969, this practice
was slightly modified and the administrative
budget was prepared and approved in two
parts, Part | relating to the internal administrative
expenses of the Bank, and Part |! relating to

which such technical assistance expenditure should be charged;

(b} Service to member countries is essentially
of 2 nature in which, in a particular year,
there may be significant differences between “commitments” and “disbursements”; it is therefore meaningful to
show both accounts; and

(c} The internal administrative expenses of the
Bank are not of the same nature as the
cost of “services to member countries”;
a consolidation of the two may give rise
to misunderstanding as to the total size
of the Administrative Budget.40

A. ORDINARY CAPITAL
RESOURCES

CAPITAL SUBSCRIPTION

The third instatment of subscriptions to the
Bank's paid-in capital from members other than
Switzerland fell due on 22 August 1968; the
second instalment of Switzerland's subscription
fell due on 29 December 1968. The Bank has
received payment of all due instalments. Cambodia, which confirmed its membership in the
Bank on 27 December 1968, paid its second
and third instalments early in 1969.

At the end of the year, the Bank‘s paid-in
capital amounted to the equivalent of US $289.8
million, of which the equivalent of US $243.7
million represented payments in various convertible currencies.

Austria, the Federal Republic of Germany,
Italy, Norway and Switzerland paid in cash the
payments due under Article 6. 2(b) of the
Articles of Agreement as they had done with
Previous instalments, thus augmenting the
resources of the Bank available for investment.

INVESTMENT OF
BANK FUNDS

Of convertible currency funds not currently
tequired for operations, 37 per cent were
invested in government securities or government
guaranteed obligations of the respective member
countries, and 63 per cent in time deposits with
commercial banks in the member countries and
with the Bank for International Settlements.

In investing these funds the Bank has been
guided by considerations of security, liquidity
and yield, subject to the requirements of Article
24 of the Articles of Agreement and in accordance with the investment guidelines set forth
by the Board of Directors. Under these guidefines, which were reviewed in May 1968, the
Bank is authorized to invest funds not required
for operations in government or government
guaranteed securities of member countries
maturing not more than five years after the date
of purchase, and in time deposits with or
certificates of deposit of commercial banks in
member countries maturing within two years.

Commercial banks in the United States,
Federal Republic of Germany, Italy, United
Kingdom, Hongkong and Japan responded
favorably to the Bank’s offer to make available
for participation maturities of several Bank
loans for their own account and without recourse to the Bank. Thus, of three loans
granted by the Bank for specific projects
aggregating US $24.2 million, maturities up to
five years were sold to more than twenty banks
in the total amount of US $2.8 million.

INCOME AND EXPENDITURE

During 1968 the Bank’s gross income
amounted to US$7,176,591. The continuing
high level of interest rates in the world money
markets yielded a substantial investment income. The gross expenditure of the Bank in
1968 amounted to US $3,691,676, so that net
income, after appropriating commissions on
loans aggregating US $2,124 to Special Reserve
in accordance with Articles 16. 1 and 17 of the
Articles of Agreement, was US $3,482,791.
This amount is available for allocation by the
Board of Governors, in accordance with the
provisions of Article 40. 1 of the Articles of
Agreement.

MEMBER CURRENCIES:
CHANGES IN VALUE

During the year there was a reduction in the
foreign exchange value of Indonesia’s currency,
and consequently Indonesia paid an additional
amount of its currency to the Bank in accordance with Article 25. 1 of the Articles of Agreement.

Amounts shown in the Annual Report for
1967 as receivable from members on account
of reduction in the par values or foreign exchange values of certain member currencies
during 1967 were all paid in the early part of
1968.PRELIMINARY ARRANGEMENTS
FOR BORROWING

During the year contacts were made: with
financial communities abroad in anticipation of
bond issues by the Bank in the not-too-distant
future. There is a prospect of a bond issue in
Europe in 1969.

The Bank commenced the process of obtaining qualification fegislation in the various
states of the United States that would give its
bonds as favorable a position with respect to
regulated investors as that enjoyed by bonds
of the older-established institutions. During
the course of the year such legislation was
enacted in the states of New York, California,
New Jersey, Pennsylvania and Massachusetts.
This result, reinforced by similar action in other
states in the future, will be an important factor
in the successful raising of funds in the capital
markets of the United States.

In order to facilitate possible bond issues in
this important respect, the Board of Directors
of the Bank on 11 January 1968 adopted a
Resolution relating to limitations to borrowings
by the Bank which provides that:

. borrowing by the Bank for inclusion
in its ordinary capital resources shal! be so
limited that no new borrowing will be made
or guarantee chargeable to such resources
will be given if the amount so to be borrowed
or the amount so to be guaranteed, when
added to the aggregate amount then outstanding of such borrowing plus the amount
then outstanding so guaranteed, would
exceed the amount of the callable capital
stock of the Bank subscribed by members
whose currencies are deemed convertible
by the Bank after consultation with the
International Monetary Fund pursuant to
Anticle 23 of the Bank’s Articles of Agreement.”

. Multi- ~Purpose Special Fund;a. Technical Assist=3...

B. SPECIAL
FUNDS
RESOURCES

The yeat ee review gawa promising ‘start :
on’: the: constitution’ of Special |. Funds. The .
“Special Funds‘Rules:and Regulations’ adopted:
by the Board “of: Directors ‘in ‘September make
provision ‘for ‘an Agticultural: “Special : “Fund, a

 
 
   
  

ance. Special Fund “and “such: other: Special’.
Funds’ as might. be established or poreped ‘by. :
the Bank:: y

The ‘augmentation “ot the “Basige” pitental:
role..in “the tegio the “provision ..of -such:.

 

 

“Funds ‘has ‘engaged: wide “attention: In ‘state- =. °

:-ments:made at the First: Annual ‘Meeting ofthe
- Board of: Governors held ‘in Manila . in. 1968,

 
     
    

\ withthe: developments. ie ‘thé world financial.”
community—a ‘situation. which ‘the. “Governor
for the United States Vividly déscribed. as.’
attack of unparalleled. ferocity : ‘On: “the: inter=:
national financial, arrangements under which

- we . have‘lived forthe last two. decade’

Under. ‘this attack; tising interest : rates. ‘and:

balance’ “of “payments: problems” Of many.

countries ae combining to: inhibit the’ volume

of effective economic’ aid; :that!/is, aid “on.

terms which will not contribute further to the

worsening problem of debt ‘service faced by.

many developing countries, Discovering ways

to alleviate this situation is @ source of deep

concern to this Bank.

“It was toward that end that’ | -echoed the
appeal for Special Funds resources which
could be made available on concessional ai42

terms, in my Opening Address. | was pleased
to note the endorsement of this avenue of
assistance by a number of developed
countries present here. | would particularly
like to commend the remarks of the Governor
for the United Kingdom on the urgency for
advanced nations to consciously work toward an augmentation of economic aid flows
in. the coming years.

“We have received evidence at this Meeting
that this ‘urgency is being met in.a generous
fashion—that, despite the pressures currently

weighing on many developed countries, they

aré not going.to flinch from the responsibility

‘which their.position of prosperity. has placed

upon ‘them. | refer to the pledges of concréte

“support announced by. the Governors for

Canada, Denmark, Japan, ‘the :Netherlands

and the United States. We look forward to

discussing with them the pertinent details

contingent upon injecting these critical funds,
“into the economic bloodstream of... Our

developing members.
“in respect of supplementing our resources,

‘ it only ‘remains for mé to ‘téeiterate our, hope
“that prospective donor countries will.do all

in their. power to’ complete thé necessary
executive and fegislative actions to make
these funds available-as soon as-possible. For
our part, we will act to finalizé our own
‘framework of Rules and Regulations covering
the administration “and utilization of Special
Funds.

“Several Governors have referred to this
‘framework in their comments. These comments have struck a common chord in
Yécognizing the need for proper balance in
determining the terms under which these

_ contributions should be accepted—a balance

which must afford due weight to what the
Governor for India terms ‘the economic
‘circumstances in which contributors make
their contributions’.

“At the same time, the Governor for
Canada and others have taken the lead in

reaffirming the need to protect the multilateral character and management of the
ADB—a need which can best be served by
Special Funds with as few restrictive covenants as possible.

“FE very much appreciate the spirit of
mutual understanding exhibited both by
prospective donors. and by prospective, recipients in seeking to strike this balance.”

The Technical Assistance Special Fund was
augmented during the year.as follows:

(a). under an exchange of letters dated 10
February. and. 12 ‘March, the. Federal
‘Republic of Germany agreed ‘to give, on.a
grant ‘basis, technical..assistance facilities
to the Bank: ‘that Government indicated
for pl anning purposes - that.i in the calendar
“year 1968.it. would -give consideration to
requests for-such assistance ‘entailing disbursements up to DM160,000;

(b)° under, an exchange. of ‘letters dated..19

_ March,.a sum of Y36 million was paid to.
the Bank ‘by the ‘Government.of Japan, on
a_ grant basis, ‘for technical assistance

. Tacilities ;

(c). the Government of Japan .made_.an ad=
ditional technical assistance ‘contribution
of Y11.26 million, on a grant basis, under
an exchange of letters dated 3.July and
11 July; and . a :

(d) under, an exchange of letters dated 7
November,.a grant contribution equivalent
to US$100,000 was. accepted from the
Government of Canada to be incorporated
in ‘the resources of the Technical Assistance Special Fund.

At the end of 1968 the Bank had resources

available tn this Fund from Britain, Canada, the

Federal Republic of Germany, Japan and the

United States.

The Bank was also able to make a start during
the year on the utilization of the generous offers
made by the Governors of some developing
member countries at the First Annual Meeting‘to help. in the Bank’s technical assistance
activities. One such case, for example, was an
arrangement under which the Government of
Pakistan paid the basic salary of an expert from
Pakistan for the period of a technical assistance
mission and the Bank paid the balance of the
cost involved. A similar arrangement was also
“being worked out with the Government of
“India for securing the services of experts on a
cost sharing basis and negotiations were already
sc. "lin hand for obtaining a consultant ‘for~ the
sac: SRegional Transport Survey on this basis. These
arrangements are indicative of the potentialities

 

 

 
   
   
   
  

«rdischarge of its role in the region.

‘December 1968, a sum’ of: Yen 7,200 million

‘ perations of the ‘Bank relating to :agricultural

“cmainly ‘in:-South: East: ‘Asia: The financing..so
provided ‘from’.the contribution’ will’ be ‘used,
“> ‘except, as otherwise agreed, only. for procure“ment-in Japan. of goods. produced. in,~ or
“= services supplied from; Japan: however, repay
 

 

available for procurement of goods and services
from Japan as well as from other contributors
to: the Consolidated Special Funds on a competitive basis.

Similarly, an agreement was signed on 23
December 1968 with the Government of
Canada under which a contribution equivalent
to US $25,000,000 has been made available to

‘open for developing member countries to assist |. .:
‘the: ‘Bank,.. and thereby one another, inthe =

‘The. Agricultutal. Spécial ‘Fund “was ‘set “ud:
when; under-an: exchange. of letters datéd-10 °
was, “accepted: as -a_ contribution: from. thesis ss
Government: of Japan; this, contribution: is ‘to:
be-. Used for “financing; “by: Joans; “Special SS

‘Bank :and:to
the: Region:

ae underway, with the Government of ‘Denmark,

 

development: including ‘forestry, fisheries and.) :
‘agriculturally- related: industries. “It’ is. the desire:

é “Special. Fund.
-~of the ‘Contributor ‘that the'contribution:be- used: ae

“Inthe jast: ‘quarter of 1968, he Bank. began. ‘
considering ‘the application ofthe, provision: fore:
“set-aside” ‘resources. incorporated*in [Article i

-ments:.and: income accruals may. be made.:.

the Multi-Purpose Special Fund over a five-year
period on the basis of cumulative annual
instalments of US $5 million. The contribution
is to be used in carrying out special foan
operations of the Bank to finance the procurement of equipment, services and supplies of
Canadian origin. The terms and conditions’ of
such financing are to be determined by the’ Bank

and loans may be made to any developing.

member country for any purpose consistent. with
the Articles of Agreement and the Special Funds
Rules and Regulations. The funds ‘derived from

‘-‘Tepayments ‘of .joans and: accruals will: not. be’.
restricted: to “procurement of Canadian “goods
and-services. ‘ .

 

In authorizing aEcepianéd of sesh ‘con
tributions, the -.Boatd... of. ‘Directors:. recorded:
warm appreciation of the goodwill and | helpful" :
“NESS displayed by..the:contributors towa ds ‘the:
ards ‘the pevelcelag members Of.

 

    

“At the “end--of- “thé: year. ‘disguésions “wel

With. a-view to @ contribution to th Agrigultur

19.1 of the,Articles of Agreement:*.2..0.
These activities: in‘respect of Special Funds | in

: 1968 ‘representa’ promising: start; but. they’ ‘are

no: more than‘a. start and.-wilf -have ‘to-.be .“reinforced by continued efforts in:1969.:A-more.
- concrete shape’ will be given to ‘these: efforts

by the development of suitable proposals for the
use of Special Funds in member countries.’

“in February 1969, the Board of Directors recommended to the Board of
Governors that 10 per cent of the unimpaired paid-in capital pursuant to
Article 6. 2(a) of the Articles of Agreement be “set-aside”. for special. loan
operations.

 
  
   

 

43APPENDICESAPPENDIX 1
ne

FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND
OPINIONS OF
INDEPENDENT AUDITORS

ORDINARY CAPITAL RESOURCES:

| Balance Sheet

{} Comparative Statement of Income and Expenses

HI Cash in Banks and Demand Obligations of Members’
iV Statement of Loans

V_ Subscriptions to Capital Stock and Voting Power

VI Notes to Financial Statements—

Opinion of Independent Auditors

SPECIAL FUNDS RESOURCES:

>

Balance Sheet
B Statement of income and Expenses
C¢ Technical Assistance Special Fund—
Balance Sheet
D Technical Assistance Speciai Fund—
Statement of Income and Expenses
E Technical Assistance Special Fund—
Statement of Expenses by Projects and Programs
F Notes to Financial Statements

Opinion of independent AuditorsASIAN DEVELOPMENT BANK —

BALANCE

December

Expressed in United

ASSETS

 

CASH IN BANKS (Note B)
Member currencies (See Appendix 1-III)
INVESTMENTS
Government and government-guaranteed
obligations-amortized cost
Maturities not exceeding one year
{Face amount: $40,838,480)
Maturities over one year
(Face amount: $17,990,098)

Time deposits and certificates of deposit
Maturities not exceeding one year
Maturities over one year

Accrued Interest

DEMAND OBLIGATIONS OF MEMBERS
(Notes B and C)
Non-negotiable, non-interest-bearing obligations in member currencies (See Appendix
1-H)
SUBSCRIPTION INSTALMENTS RECEIVABLE FROM
MEMBER (Note C)
EFFECTIVE LOANS (See Appendix 4 -!V)
Heid by Bank
Agreed to be sold

OTHER ASSETS
SPECIAL RESERVE FUND ASSETS
Accrued loan commissions (Note D)
STAFF RETIREMENT PLAN ASSETS
Cash on deposit, segregated and held in trust
{Note E}

TOTAL

46

$ 4,439,814

$40,639,391

17,809,010
$68,448,401

78,044,617
23,282,765
98,327,382
186,775,783

3,093,800
159,869,583

129,986,738
700,000
13,930,000
285,000
20,215,000
266,151

2,124

573,739

$316,063,149

 

The accampanying notes to financial statements (Appendix 1-VI) ate an integral part of this statement,APPENDIX 1-1

ORDINARY CAPITAL RESOURCES

‘SHEET

31, 1968
States Dollars (Note A)
LIABILITIES, RESERVES AND CAPITAL

 

LIABILITIES
Undisbursed balance of effective loans
{See Appendix 1-IV¥)

Held by Bank $18,906,734
Agreed to be sold 285,000
ns $ 19,191,734
Accounts payable and other liabilities 214,280
__ $ 49,406,024
SPECIAL RESERVE (Note D) 2,124
STAFF RET?REMENT PLAN RESERVE (Note £) 573,739
CAPITAL (Note C)
Capital stock (See Appendix 1-V)
Authorized—66,000 “paid-in” shares and
55,000 “callable” shares of $10,000 par
value each
Subscribed (97,000 shares) 370,000,000
Less callable shares subscribed
(48,500 shares) 485,000,000
Paid-in shares subscribed (48,500
shares) 485,000,000
Less subscription instalments not due 194,500,000
Subscription instalments matured 280,500,000
Ordinary Reserve (Note F) 2,098,474
Net Income for the year ended December 31, 1968
(to be allocated by the Board of Governors) : 3,482,791
ns 296,081,262

$316,063,149APPENDIX 1-II

ASIAN DEVELOPMENT BANK — ORDINARY CAPITAL RESOURCES
COMPARATIVE STATEMENT OF INCOME AND EXPENSES

For the Period from November 24, 1966* to December 31, 1967

and the year ended December 31, 1968

Expressed in United States Dollars (Note A)

 

 

1966-4967 1968
INCOME From investments $4,547,533 $7,123,644
From foan operations
Interest — 12,477
Commissions — 2,124
Commitment charge — 18,727
From other sources 4,033 19,619
GROSS INCOME 4,551,566 7,176,531
Deduct commissions appropriated to Special Reserve (Note D) — 2,124
UNAPPROPRIATED GROSS INCOME 4,551 566 7,174,467
EXPENSES Administrative expenses
Board of Governors 17,417 35,599
Board of Directors
Salaries 364,337 381,052
Benefits 55,634 67,197
Travel 111,701 88,414
Total Board of Directors 531,672 536,663
Staff
Salaries 802,324 1,410,363
Benefits 185,313 384,513
Travel 394,856 441,386
Representation 20,213 24,764
Consultants 148,188 136,528
otal: Stat 1,560,894 2.397.654
Other administrative expenses
Communications 34,230 403,425
Office occupancy 21,811 29,252
Publications and printing 34,086 79,015
Expendable supplies 46,273 74,901
Furniture and equipment 127,304 84,664
Fees and compensation 3,267 102,265
Miscellaneous (including exchange adjustments} 43,021 121,864
Total other administrative expenses "309,972 ~ 595,386
Total administrative expenses 2,409,955 3,565,192
Services to member countries
Project Preparation Missions and other Loan-Related Technical
Assistance — 46,391
Advisory Missions and other Technical Assistance 43,140 80,033
Total services to member countries 43,140 126,484
GROSS EXPENSES 2,453,095 3,691,676

A A A

46 NET INCOME {Note C) . $2,098,471 $3,482,791

 

The accompanying notes to financial statements (Appendix 1-V?) are an integral part of this statement.

¥ Date of Inaugural Meeting of the Board of Governors.APPENDIX 1-lll

ASIAN DEVELOPMENT BANK — ORDINARY CAPITAL RESOURCES
CASH IN BANKS AND DEMAND OBLIGATIONS OF MEMBERS

December 31, 1968
Expressed in United States Dollars (Note A)
Gj es

TOTAL

DEMAND
CASH IN OBLIGATIONS
MEMBERS UNIT OF CURRENCY BANKS OF MEMBERS
Afghanistan Afghani $ — $ 717,000*
Australia Australian Doilar 801 12,750,0007
Austria Austrian Schilling 4,372 =
Belgium Belgian Franc 5,700 740,000
Cambodia Riel 175,000* —
Canada Canadian Dollar —_ 3,750,000
~ Ceylon Ceylon Rupee 5,851 1,269,728*
China, Republic of New Taiwan Doilar 3,677 2,385,000*
Denmark Danish Krone —_— 750,000
Finland Finnish Markka — 750,000
Germany, Federal Republic of Deutsche Mark 21,369 —
{India indian Rupee 9,143 13,933,981*
Indonesia Rupiah 1,641,655* 2,124,119*
italy italian Lira 15,346 —
Japan Yen 20,150 30,000,000
Korea, Republic of Won 9,224 4,473,198*
Laos Kip 60,154* —
Malaysia Malaysian Dollar 7,873 2,983,993*
Nepal Nepalese Rupee 2,274 . 320,485*
Netherlands Netherlands Guilder — 1,650,000
New Zealand New Zealand Dollar — 3,384,000t
Norway Norwegian Krone — —
Pakistan Pakistan Rupee 5,068 4,790,130*
Philippines Philippine Peso 107,176 _ 4,250,000*
Singapore Singapore Dollar 8,685 740,200*
Sweden Swedish Krone —_ 750,000
Switzerland Swiss Franc — —
Thailand Baht 8,815 2,984,904*
United Kingdom Pound Sterling 183,044 4,500,000
United States United States Doilar 368,427 30,000,000
Viet-Nam, Republic of Piastre 1,799,820* —
Western Samoa Western Samoan Doflar 6,190* —

rr RE TERN

$4,439,814 $123,996,738

EN A PERT

The accompanying notes to financial statements (Appendix 1-VI} are an integral part of this statement

* Restrictions on use may be imposed by members {Note B) *' +Restrictians on use have been imposed by members (Note 3).

ag50

ASIAN DEVELOPMENT BANK —

STATEMENT
December

Expressed in United

 

 

 

Date of interest Rate
Member Loan Loan (including Principal
Purpose and Borrower No. Agreement Maturities commission) Amount
CEYLON % :
Tea Industry—
Central Bank of Ceylon 2 CE July 17 ‘68 1971-1983 8% 2,000,000
CHINA, REPUBLIC OF
Roads—
Republic of China 5 CHI Nov. 30 '68 1971-1978 6g 400,000
industry—
Chinese Petroleum Company
(Guaranteed by Member)
{Note 1} 7 CHI Dec. 27 ’68 1972-1980 63 10,200,006
KOREA, REPUBLIC OF
Roads—
Republic of Korea 3 KOR Sept. 16 ‘62 1972-1983 63 6,800,000
MALAYSIA
Water Supply—
Malaysia 4 MAL Sept. 23 ‘68 1973-1988 63 7,200,000
PAKISTAN
Industry—
industria) Development Bank
of Pakistan (Guaranteed by Not fixed Variable
Member) 6 PAK Dec. 16 ‘68 Note 2 Note 2 10,000,006
THAILAND
fndustry—
Industrial Finance Corporation
of Thailand (Guaranteed by Not fixed Variable
Member) 4 THA. Jan. 25 68 Note 2 Note 2 5,000,000
TOTAL $41,600,000

 

The accompanying notes to financial statements (Appendix 7-VI) are an
integral pari ol this slatement

Note 1, The Bank has entered into agreements to sell §1,750,000 from early
matunties tn respect of this loan,APPENDIX 1-fV

ORDINARY CAPITAL RESOURCES

OF LOANS
31, 1968

States Dollars (Note A)

A

 

Effective Loans Undisbursed Balances of Effective Loans
Payments —————_—  — — ———__—_—_. a eSesSeSeSeSeSeSsSsSSsSSssssesFs
Loans not yet Received for Held . Sold or Agreed Held Sold or Agreed
Effective Loans Sold by Bank to be Sold by Bank to be Sold
$ $ $ $ $ $
— — 2,000,000 —_ 2,000,000 —
400,000 — —e = — —
10,200,000 — = — _—_ —
— 785,000 6,015,000 —_— 5,692,342 —
— — 6,915,000 285,000 6,915,000 285,000
10,000,000 — — — — —_—
—_— — 5,000,000 — 4,283,392 —_—
re Ps AEE
$20,600,000 $785,000 $19,930,000 $285,000 $18,206,734 $285,000
SEs ss
Note 2. ieturities and interes: sates of Loans Nos. 1 THA and 6 PAX were not 3e commited aggregated’ $1.26.087 in respect of seven specific
fixed at the time the foar agreements were signed, Matufities will be projects under Loan No. 1 THA. These emounts carry interest at 67%
tized at the time each portion of these ioans is committed for a specific per annum. end ee scheculed to be repaid during 1969-1976 in
Project and interest wil! be applied to each such portion at the Bank’s conformity with the maturities fixed for the individuat projects,

fending rate prevalent et thet time. As of December 31, 1968 amounts

51ASIAN DEVELOPMENT BANK —

SUBSCRIPTIONS TO CAPITAL

December

Expressed in Thousands of

 

SUBSCRIBED

MEMBERS Per Cent
Shares of Total Par Value

rr pyr veers
REGIONAL:

 

 

Afghanistan 478 0.49 $ 4,780
Australia 8.500 8.76 85,000
Cambodia (Note C) 350 0.36 3,500
Ceylon 852 0.88 8,520
China, Republic of 1,600 1.65 16,000
India 9,300 3.59 93,000
indonesia 2,500 2.57 25,000
Japan 20,000 20.62 200,000
Korea, Republic of 3,000 3.09 36,000
Laos 42 0.04 420
Malaysia 2,000 2.06 20,000
Nepal 216 0.22 2,160
New Zealand 2,256 2.32 22,560
Pakistan 3,200 3.30 32,000
Philippines 3,500 3.61 35,000
Singapore 500 0.52 5,000
Thailand 2,000 2.06 20,000
Viet-Nam, Republic of 1,200 4.24 12,000
Western Samoa 6 0.01 60

Total Regional 61,500 63.39 $615,000

 

NON-REGIONAL:

 

Austria 500 0.82 $ 5,000
Belgium 500 0.52 5,000
Canada 2,500 2.57 25,000
Denmark 500 0.52 5,060
Finland 500 0.52 5,000
Germany, Federal Republic of 3,400 3.50 34,000
Italy 2,000 2.06 20,000
Netherlands 1,100 1.13 11,000
Norway 500 0.52 5,000
Sweden 500 0.52 5,000
Switzerland 500 0.52 5,060
United Kingdom 3,000 3.09 30,000
United States 20,000 20.62 200,000

Total Non-Regional 35,500 36.61 $355,000

nt

GRAND TOTAL 87,000 100.00 $970,000

inn rier

The accompanying notes to financial statements (Appendix 1-V)) are an integral part of this statement,APPENDIX 1-V

ORDINARY CAPITAL RESOURCES
STOCK AND VOTING POWER

31, 1968
United States Dollars (Note A)

A A

PAR VALUE OF PAR VALUE OF > VOTING
CALLABLE SHARES PAID-IN SHARES POWER
—— $c
Subject Subscription Instaiments Number Per Cent
to Cail Not Due Matured of Votes of Total

PES

 

$ 2390 $ 956 $ 1,434 1,235 4.02
42500 17,000 25,500 9,257 7.64
1,750 700 1,060 1,107 0.91
4,260 1,704 2,556 1,608 1.33
8,000 3,200 4,800 2,357 1.94
46,500 18,600 27,900 10,057 8.30
12,500 5,000 7,800 3,257 2.69
100,000 40,000 60,000 20,757 17.12
15,000 §,000 9,000 3,757 3.10
210 84 126 799 0.66
10,000 4,000 6,000 2,757 2.27
1,080 432 648 973 0.80
11,280 4,512 6,768 3,013 248
16,000 6,400 9,600 3,957 3.26
17,500 7,000 10,500 4,257 3.51
2,500 1,006 1,500 1,257 1.04
10,000 4,000 6,000 2,757 2.27
6,000 2,400 3,600 1,957 1.61

30 12 18 763 0.63
$307,500 $123,000 $184,500 75,883 62.58

rr

$ 2,500 $ 1,000 $ 1,500 . 1,257 1.04
2,500 4,000 1,500 1,257 4.04
12,500 5,000 7,500 3,257 2.69
2,500 4,000 1,500 1,257 1,04
2,500 4,000 1,500 4,257 1.04
17,000 6,800 10,200 4,157 3.43
10,000 4,006 8,000 2,757 227
5,500 2,200 3,300 4,857 1.53
2,500 1,000 1,500 4,257 1.04
2,500 1,000 1,500 1,257 1.04
2,500 1,500 1,000 1,257 1.04
15,000 6,000 9,000 3,757 3.10
100,000 40,000 60,000 20,757 17.12
i a
$177,500 $ 71,500 $106.000 45,341 37.42
re
$485,000 $194,500 $290,500 121,224. 400.00

A54

APPENDIX 1-VI

ASIAN DEVELOPMENT BANK — ORDINARY CAPITAL RESOURCES
NOTES TO FINANCIAL STATEMENTS

For the Year Ended December 31, 1968
Expressed in United States Dollars (Note A)

 

NOTE A:

Amounts in currencies ather than United States dollars have been
translated into United States dollars:

{1) In the cases of Afghanistan, Australia, Austria, Belgium,
Canada, Ceylon, Denmark, Finland, Federal Republic of
Germany, india, Italy, Japan, Malaysia, Nepal, Netherlands,
New Zealand, Norway, Pakistan, Philippines, Singapore,
Sweden, Thailand and United Kingdom, at par values
established by these members with the International
Monetary Fund;

(2) {pn the case of Switzerland, which is not a member of the
International Monetary Fund, at the rate of 4.37282 Swiss
Francs per United States dollar, which has been determined
by the Bank to be the rate appropriate for this purpose ;

(3) In the cases of Cambodia, the Republic of China, Indonesia,
the Republic of Korea, Laos, the Republic of Viet-Nam and
Western Samoa at the rates used by these countries in
making payments of capital subscriptions to the Bank, and
determined by the Bank to be the rates appropriate for this
purpose.

No representation is made that any currency held by the Bank is
convertible into any other currency at any tate or rates.

NOTE B:

tn accordance with Article 24, paragraph 2 (i), the use by the Bank
of by any recipient from the Bank may be restricted by the member
to making payments for goods and services produced and intended
for use in its territory, as follows:

The use of cash in banks and demand obligations in the currencies
of 16 members aggregating $44,625,557.

in accordance with Article 24, paragraph 2 {ii), the use by the
Bank or by any recipient from the Bank has been restricted by the
member to making payment for goods and services produced in
its territory, as follows:

The use of demand obligations in the currencies of 2 members
aggregating $16,134,000.

NOTE C:

The original authorized capital of the Bank was $1,000,000,000
in terms of United States dollars of the weight and fineness in
effect on January 31, 1966. In November 1966, the Board of
Governors approved an inctease of $100,000,000 in authorized
capital, such increase to be available for the admission of new
members. As of December 31, 1968, the subscribed capital was
$970,000,000.

The subscribed “paid-in” capital stock is payable in five equal
instalments, each of which is payable 50% in gold or convertible
currencies and 50% in the currency of the respective member. In
lieu of the portian of any instalment paid or payable in the currency
of a member, provided such currency is not required by the Bank
for the conduct of its operations, the Bank shall accept nonnegotiable, non-interest-bearing demand obligations in accordance
with Article 6, paragraph 3.

As of December 31, 1868, an amount aggregating $700,000 was
receivable from Cambodia on account of the second and third
capital subscription instalments, Cambodia had notified the Bank
on September 18, 1967 of its intention to withdraw from membership in the Bank. Hawever, on December 27, 1968 it informed the
Bank of its decision to maintain its status as a member of the Bank.

Alt other matured instalments amounting to $289,800,000 have
been paid as of December 31, 1968 and the balance of instalments
amounting io $194,500,000 is payable as follows :

(1} $193,000,000 in two equal instalments on August 22, in
each of the years 1969 and 1970;

(2) $1,500,000 in three equal instalments on December 29, in
each of the years 1969 through 1971 (representing the
subscription of Switzerland which paid the first instalment
on December 29, 1967).

The callable capital stock is subject to call only as and when required
by the Bank to meet its obligations incurfed on borrowings or on
guarantees.

Under the provision of Article 40, the Board of Governors shall
determine annually what part of the net income shall be allocated,
after making provision for reserves, to surplus and what part, if
any, shall be distributed to the members.

NOTE D:

From the interest earnings of the Bank on loans made by it from
its ordinary capital resources, a commission calculated at 1% per
annum on the outstanding arnount of such loans was credited to a
Special Reserve in accordance with Article 16, paragraph 1 and
Articie 17.

NOTE E:

The Board of Directors approved the Staff Retirement Plan (the
Pian} in December 1968, to be retroactive from November 24,
1966. Every employee, as defined under the Pian, shall as a condition of service become a participant as of the fisst day of his
service, provided that as of such date he shall not have reached his
normal retirement date. The Plan applies also to the members of
the Board of Directors who elect to join the Plan. Each participant
contributes to the Plan seven per cent of his remuneration and the
Bank contributes the remainder of the cost and expenses of the
Plan.

As of December 31, 1968 the Bank contributed $388,011 to the
Plan to cover its estimated cost and expenses at the rate of fourteen
per cent of participants’ remuneration as recommended by the
independent actuary for the Plan, and retroactive interest at the
rate of 4% per annum.

NOTE F:

The whole of the net income of the Bank for the period from
November 24, 1966 to December 31, 1967, namely $2,098,471,
was allocated to the Ordinary Reserve in terms of the Resolution
adopted by the Board of Governors at the First Annual Meeting.HASKINS & SELLS

Certified Public Accountants
Two Broadway
New York 10004

OPINION OF INDEPENDENT AUDITORS

Asian Development Bank:

We have examined the following financial statements of Asian Development Bank—Ordinary Capital
Resources as of December 31, 1968 and for the year then ended:

Appendix 1
Balance Sheet )
Comparative Statement of Income and Expenses I
Cash in Banks and Demand Obligations of Members ul
Statement of Loans IV
Subscriptions to Capital Stock and Voting Power Vv
Notes to Financial Statements vi

Our examination was made in accordance with generally accepted auditing standards, and accordingly
included such tests of the accounting records and such other auditing procedures as we considered necessary
in the circumstances.

In-our opinion, the accompanying financial statements present fairly the financial! position of Asian
Development Bank—Ordinary Capital Resources at December 31, 1968 and the results of its related operations
for the year then ended in conformity with generally accepted accounting principles applied on a basis consistent with that of the preceding period.

HASKINS & SELLS

January 20, 1969

LE 55ASIAN DEVELOPMENT BANK— |
BALANCE |
December

Expressed in United

 

CONTRIBUTED

Technical Assistance
Special Fund (Note 3)

ASSETS
CASH IN SANKS 28,959

INVESTMENTS
Government obligations-amortized cost: ' i 41,443

NOTES OF CONTRIBUTOR’
Non-negotiable, non-interest-bearing notes (Note 4)

RESOURCES AVAILABLE FROM CONTRIBUTORS
Amounts made. avaiable. “ey é 515,949
Less amounts:drawn 3 255,153
fo. te nos i —_ 260,796

TOTAL . $332,198

 

LIABILITIES AND UNEXPENDED BALANCES
ACCOUNTS PAYABLE’. : 57.778

UNEXPENDED BALANCES
Contributed resources
Contributions committed 515,949
Less amounts not yet made avaitable —

Amounts made available 515,949
Less excess of expenses over income 241,529
274,420

TOTAL $332,198

56 rr SS

The accompanying notes to financial statements (Appendix 1-F} are an integral part of this statement,APPENDIX 1-A

(Note 1)

Multi-Purpose .
Special Fund (Note 5) . Total
 

29,959". S

 

~ 20,000,000:

  

51000.000. ~ 2BS15940
se ant. P's 120;385)153. 0:
5,060,000 ms

 

_.35,000,000.

 

 

 

— ae / 87.778
20,000,900 © 25,000,000. 45,518,949
oi 20,000,000 ° 20,000,000
20,000,000 5,000,000 25,515,949
ove 241,529 :
al 20,000,000 _—_ 5,000,000 — 25,274,420
$20,000,006 $5,000,000 $25,332,198.

me 57APPENDIX 1-B

ASIAN DEVELOPMENT BANK — SPECIAL FUNDS RESOURCES (Note 1)

STATEMENT OF INCOME AND EXPENSES

From June 23, 1967* to December 31, 1968
Expressed in United States Dollars (Note 2)

 

Technicat Assistance

 

Special Fund
$
INCOME 132
EXPENSES
internal Administrative Expenses of the Bank—
Project Appraisal and other Field Missions—
Consultants 115,102
Other Internal Administrative Expenses—
Consultants—Headquarters 31,708
Library materials 5/232,
Depository banks charges 51
Total 152,093
Services to Member Countries—
Project Preparation Missions and other Loan-Related Technica} Assistance—
Consultants 4 2,272,
Advisory Missions and other Technical Assistance—
Consultants 77,296
Total 89,568
GROSS EXPENSES 241,661
EXCESS OF EXPENSES OVER INCOME $241,529
The accompanying notes to financial statements (Appendix 1-F) are an integral part of this statement.
58 eS

* Date of first contribution.“it

®

we,

ASIAN DEVELOPMENT BANK —
TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE .

BALANCE

December
Expressed in United

j
|
|
al
A
{
]
:
a
a
3
|
#]
|
e
‘i
a
3

 

 

CANADA GERMANY
ASSETS ‘ a

CASH IN BANKS — 108*
INVESTMENTS

Government obligations-amortized cost — ee
RESOURCES AVAILABLE FROM CONTRIBUTORS

Amounts made available 100,000 ; 43,499

Less. amounts drawn , as . 13,499

100;000 _—
Total $100,000 $108

LIABILITIES AND UNEXPENDED BALANCES

ACCOUNTS PAYABLE 21,580

UNEXPENDED BALANCES
Contributed resources

Contributions committed 100,000 13,499

Less amounts not yet made avaitable —

Amounts made available 100,000 13,499

 

 

Less excess of expenses over income 21,580 13,381
78,420
Total $100,000 $108 1
* This amount represents the difference between estimates and actual expenses incurred
up to the end of 1968, and is subject to disposal by the contributor. AR
60 ne
The accompanying notes to financial statements (Appendix 1-F) are an integral part of this statement.
a
3
aAPPENDIX 1-C

RESOURCES (Note1)

    
 

-UNITED KINGDOM. UNITED STATES . | TOTAL

 
 
 
 
 

      
  
  

    

 

2816949
255,153 ©

 

= 21172" ghee enone

  

24,172 Pa 8g 250,000. oe 515,949

    

 

481278 24.172 250,000 - 618,949
58,088 21,172 126,298 241529 a
72,190 ——— — —-- 123,702 — 274,420.

 

$94,208 $7,916 $128,971 1 8332,498

 

61ASIAN DEVELOPMENT BANK —
TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE

STATEMENT OF INCOME
From June 23, 1967*
Expressed in United

 

 

CANADA GERMANY
: $ $
INCOME — . —*
EXPENSES
internal-Administrative Expenses of the Bank—
Project Appraisal and other Field Missions—
Consultants . . . 6,865 . 43,391
Other'Internal Administrative Expenses— E ;
Consuitants—Headquarters , id ies =
_ |. Library materiats 5 3 8 Sf - . Bi reesns =
Depository banks charges : — —
Total 6985. °° 13,381
Services to Member Countries—
Project Preparation Missions and other Loan-Related Technical
Assistance— , .
Consultants 12,272 ——
Advisory Missions and other Technical Assistance—
Consultants , 2,343 —
Total 14,615 —
GROSS EXPENSES 21,580 13,391
EXCESS OF EXPENSES OVER INCOME $21,580 $13,391
The accompanying notes to financial statements (Appendix 1-F) are an integral part of this statement,
62 rr

* Date of first contribution,SPECIAL FUNDS RESOURCES (Note 1)

 

   
    
   
  

SPECIAL FUND

UNITED KINGDOM UNITED STATES TOTAL

BBB a oe 69.8856 7 Po Saag a02
eae EE as BOB. re nS B282

BOIS 99,752 °° a 452,098

—_ , —, 12,272

"15,559 26,546 77,296

     

32,848 : 15,559 26,546 89,568

 

59,220. 21,172 126,298 241,661

 

$21,172 $126,298 $241,529

 

 

APPENDIX 1-D

en hk ee pg a77 eon? s geen tg ST 708

28. er AT sty 8. Uindbs Pf h. 3 SE BI:

63ASIAN DEVELOPMENT BANK—SPECIAL FUNDS RESOURCES (Note1)

TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE SPECIAL FUND ©

STATEMENT OF EXPENSES BY PROJECTS AND PROGRAMS

From June 23, 1967* to December 31, 1968
Expressed in United States Dollars (Note 2)

SNTERNAL ADMINISTRATIVE EXPENSES OF THE BANK
Project Appraisal and other Field Missions—

Consuitants—

Ceylon Deep-sea fisheries development
Tea factory modernization

China Deep-sea fisheries development
North-South Freeway
DMT Plant

Korea Korea Cold Storage Plant
Seoul-Inchon Expressway,

Malaysia Penang State Water Supply

Indonesia Tadjum Irrigation

Western Samoa Apia to Faleoio Airport Road

CONTRIBUTOR
Canada.
United Kingdom *

Canada
Japan

Germany
United States

United States
Canada
Germany
Japan

United States
United States
Japan

Germany

 

 

 

 

 

AMOUNT
$ $
3,532
5,585
2.721
2,070
4,791
3,773
2,114
5,887
28,228
7i2
4,621
2,102
30,000
36,723

 

 

 

"$118,102

rr

OTHER INTERNAL ADMINISTRATIVE EXPENSES

Consultants—Headquarters
Office and procurement procedures

Staff training

Preparatory work for Regional Transport Survey

Research on agricultural development
Library materiais

Depository banks charges

United States
United States

Japan
United States

Japan
United States

Japan

_ United Kingdom

Total

i TOTAL INTERNAL ADMINISTRATIVE EXPENSES

United States

3,309
9,979

 

12,498
2,400

13,288
3,522

 

 

Carried Forward

31,708
5,232

So

36,291

$152,093APPENDIX 1-E

 

CONTINUED

 

Cartied Forward $152,093 
 

CES. TO MEMBER COUNTRIES CONTRIBUTOR AMOUNT
ject Preparation Missions and Other
, -Related Technical Assistance—

   
 

 

Agriculture and Fishery Development
Corporation Canada.

 

Fisheries Port

 

Canada

   
 

ical Assistance—

 

 

 

 

ndonesia : Advisors to Ministry of Agriculture Japan : 8,285 °'
Rural Credit Survey United Kingdom 15,559
United States 8,460
24,019
Foodgrain Output United States 9,182 se
‘ 41,486
Philippines Water Management Japan 24,563
United States 8,304 a of
33,467
Regional countries Transport Survey Canada 2,343
Total $77,296

0 AL’ SERVICES TO MEMBER COUNTRIES $89,568

 

 

 

aROSS EXPENSES —
Ce ————
Date.of first contribution,

‘@-2c¢ompanying notes to financial statements (Appendix 1-F) ate an integra! part of this statement.

 

 
      

 

6566

APPENDIX 1-F

ASIAN DEVELOPMENT BANK — SPECIAL FUNDS RESOURCES (Note 1)

NOTES TO FINANCIAL STATEMENTS

From June 23, 1967* to December 31, 1968

 

NOTE 1:

In 1967 the Board of Directors established a consolidated
account for the administration of resources available under
Asticle 19, paragraph 1 (ii) to provide technical advice and
assistance serving the purposes arid coming within the
functions of the Bank, Pending the adoption of rules and
regulations governing the administration and use of Special
Funds, the term “Technical Assistance Contributions—
Consolidated Account’ was used to designate .such
resources,

On September 17, 1968 the Board of Directors adopted the

Special Funds Rules.and Regulations for the administration 
of the Bank’s.Special Funds Resources, pursuant to Article
18, paragraph 4. These Rules and Regulations provide for
an ‘Agricultural Special Fund, a Technical Assistance

Spécial Fund, a Multi-Purpose Special.Fund-.and.such. other.

Special Fund of Funds as the Bank might establish or accept.
Contributions made by-contributors before the. adoption of

~ the Special Funds Rules and.-Regulations and thereafter

have been‘accepted in terms of Article.19, paragraph 1 (ii)
and ‘have -been allocated to ‘the félevant Special Fund in
accordance with the Special Funds’ Rules and Regulations.

The financial statements relating to Special Funds Resources
as at the end of 1968 are in accordance with Sections 6.02
and 6.03 .of the Special Funds Rules and Regulations and
cover the period from the date of the first contribution
{June 23, 1967) to the end of 1968.

NOTE 2:

Amounts in the currencies of Canada, Federal Republic of
Germany, Japan and the United Kingdom have’ been
transfated into United States dollars at par values established
by these contributors with the International Monetary Fund.
No representation is made that any of such currencies is
convertible into any other currency at any rate or rates.

NOTE 3:

The contributed resources in the Technical Assistance
Special Fund consist of the following:

(a) The United States agreed on June 23, 1967 to make
available as a grant, for procurement in the United
States, a technical assistance contribution of up to
US $250,000. The contribution is made by means of
periodic transfer of funds to the Bank as needed, and
is Utilized for specific kinds of technical assistance
obligations incurred by it through December 31, 1968
unless the parties agree to extend this date. The
parties have agreed to extend this date to June 30,
1969 for obligation of still uncommitted funds.

* Date of first contribution.

{b) The United Kingdorn has deciaréd its willingness to
consider requests for the financing of British technical
services and assistance to be'utilized by the Bank, and
to enable the Bank to plan its requests, has indicated
an amount of US $250,000 upto which such requests
would be met during the British financial -year ending
March 31, 1969.

(c) The Japanese Government, in.March 1968, made a. .
contribution as a grant, of a sum .of Y36,000,000
(US $100,000) in cash, to.be used by the Bank for
procurement of services of Japanese consultants and
specialists for specified technical assistance operations,
and far provision of library materials. ee

The Japanese Government, in July 1968, offered
further to provide expert ‘services ‘to be‘used by the

Bank’ for ‘technical assistarice; Up to ‘an amount of *

Y11,260,000 (US $31,278), in the Japanesé-fifiancial
year ending March 31, 1969.

‘The Federat-Republic of Germany. offered to finance
in 1968 the services of Gerrnan consultants and
specialists to be utilized by the Bank for technical
assistance, and to enable the Bank to'plan its requests,
indicated that consideration may be given to requests
entailing disbursements of up to, DM160,000
(US $40,000) in the calendar year 1968. .

{e) The Government of Canada, in November 1968,
made available to the Bank a grant in Canadian
dollars equivalent to US $100,000 for procurement of
Canadian goods .and services, to be utilized by the
Bank for technical assistance activities.

(a

NOTE 4:

The Japanese Government, in December 1968, made a
sontribution of ¥7,200,000,000 (US $20,000,000) to the
Consolidated Special Funds, to be allocated to the Agricultural Special Fund. The contribution is in thé form of ionnegotiable, non-interest-bearing notes, deposited with
the official depository of the Bank in Japan, arid payable to
the Bank at par value,

NOTE 5:

The Government of Canada, in December 1968, agreed to
contribute to the Consolidated Special Funds in Canadian
dollars equivalent to US $25,000,000, to be allocated to the
Multi-Purpose Special Fund. The contribution ‘is available
by equal instalments in each of the five Canadian fiscal
years beginning April 1, 1968. As of December 31, 1968
the equivalent of US $5,000,000 is available to the Bank.HASKINS & SELLS

Certified Public Accountants

Two Broadway
New York 10004

OPINION OF INDEPENDENT AUDITORS

Asian Development Bank:

: We have: exéimiined the following financiat statements of Asian Development Bank—Special Funds. :
Resouices as of December. 31, 1968 and for the period from June 23, 1967 to December 31, 1968:

. Appendix 1.
Balance Sheet : . : . A>
Statement of income and Expenses __ cote -B

: Technical Assistance Special Fund Balance Sheet og,
Technical Assistance Special Fund Statement..of income eS

and | Expenses « ® : 2 BD
Technical Assistance Special Fund Sistement of Experises.

by Projects and Programs ~ “ . £
Notes to Financial Statements Bs Z F

Our examination was made in accordance with generally accepted auditing standards, and -accordingly.

included such tests of the accounting records and such other auditing procedures as we considered necessary
in the circumstances.

in our opinion, the accompanying financial statements present fairly the financial position of Asian
Development Bank—Speciai Funds Resources at December 31, 1968 and the results of its related operations

from June 23, 1867 to December 31, 1968 in conformity with generally accepted Becounting principles
consistently applied.

HASKINS & SELLS

January 20, 1969

: SSS“68

APPENDIX 2

 

aAPPENDIX 2

SUMMARY OF ADMINISTRATIVE BUDGET
ADMINISTRATIVE BUDGET PART |

INTERNAL ADMINISTRATIVE EXPENSES

pre
Financial Year

|. BOARD OF GOVERNORS
l,. BOARD OF DIRECTORS

Salaries
Benefits
Travel

Staff Services*

fl. STAFE

Salaries
Benefits

Travel
Consultants
Representation

IV. OTHER ADMINISTRATIVE EXPENSES

Communications

Office Occupancy
Publications and Printing
Expendable Supplies
Furniture and Equipment
Fees and Compensation
Miscellaneous

Vv. CONTINGENCY

TOTAL

Financial Year

 

1968 1963
Budget Actual Budget
$ $ $
46,000 35,599 70,000
760,000 536,663 868,000
450,000 381,062 450,000
410,000 67,197 110,000
200,000 88,474 250,000
—_ — 58,000
3,710,200 2,397,544 4,526,000
1,649,000 1,410,363 2,498,000
498,600 384,513 676,000
853,400 441,386 830,000
675,200 136,528 420,000
34,000 24,754 42,000
649,200 516,601 943,500
413,000f 103,425 245,000
37,000+ 29,252 69,000
103,0007 79,015 106,000
81,900+ 74,901 117,000
131,300t 84,664 152,500
132,900 102,265 191,000
50,100 43,079 70,000
50,000 — 70,000
$5,215,400 $3,486,407 $6,483,500

eee

* For 1968, the cost of staff services to the Directors is included in Stat Selaries,

+ Transfers of amounts among these items were made during the course of 1968.

63SUMMARY OF

ADMINISTRATIVE

SERVICES TO

 

Financial Year 1968

 

 

 

Commitments Disbursements
Approved Budget Actual
x § $ $
1. Project Preparation and Other Loan-related
Technical Assistance 587,000 400,460 46,391*
2. Advisory Missions 699,450 265,000 , 66,014+
3. Regional Transport Survey 14,295 15,000 44,295
4, Asian Agricultural Survey Follow-up
Seminars 56,784 6,000 5,784
(i) Seminar in Sydney 36,000 _— —
(ii) Individuat Country Consultation 20,784 6,000 5,784
5. Other Regional Services 15,000 — —
(i) Regional Conference of Development
Banks in Asia 15,000 — —
TOTAL $1,342,529 $686,400 $126,484
i in
* In addition, $12,272 has been disbursed for this purpose from the technical 1 The amount includes $5,072 disbursed for a project committed in 1967, In
assistance contributions. addition to this amount, $61,762 has been disbursed for this purpose fram

the technica! assistance contributions,

70 rrrAPPENDIX 2

ADMINISTRATIVE BUDGET

3UDGET PART II

VIEMBER COUNTRIES

——_—$_——————————— ee
Financial Year 1969 Budget
Carry-over from

earlier New Commitments Disbursements}
Commitments (Estimated) a 5
$ $ $

498,337 1,320,000 $91,000
582,746 1,200,000 695,000
— . 700,000 300,000
51,000 — 51,000
36,000 — 36,000
18,000 —_— 15,000
45,000 —— 15,000
15,000 — 15,000

$1,147,083 $3,220,000 $1,752,000

i

¢ The em also includes portion of disbursemenis for projects committed in
Gin the column headed “'Carry-over from earlier Commitments”.72

APPENDIX 3

 

RESOLUTIONS OF BOARD OF GOVERNORS AT FIRST ANNUAL MEETING*

RESOLUTION
NUMBER

19

20

21

22

SUBJECT

Financial Statements and Auditors’ Reports

Allocation of Net Incame

interim Arrangements for Co-operative Action with the Food
and Agriculture Organization

Appreciation

 

* The texts of the resolutions are availabte in the Proceedings of the First t

Annual Meeting.APPENDIX 4

-_—e— ee

COUNTRY

Afghanistan

Australia

Austria
Belgium
Cambodia
Canada

Ceylon.

China, Republic of

Denmark
Finland
Germany, Federal

Republic of
india

Indonesia

Italy

Japan

Korea, Republic of

 

CHANNELS OF

CHANNEL

Ministry of Planning

Kabul

cc: The Royal Afghan Embassy
Tokyo, Japan

Secretary
Commonwealth Treasury
Canberra

Bundesministerium fuer Finanzen
Wien

Ministex of Finance
Brussels

National Bank of Cambodia
Phnom-Penh

Department of Finance
Ottawa.

Permanent Secretary to the Ministry
of Planning and Economic Affairs
Colombo

Governor
The Central Bank of China
Taipei

Ministry for Foreign Affairs
Copenhagen

Ministry for Foreign Affairs
Helsinki

Bundesministerium fuer Wirtschaft
Bonn

Secretary to the Government of India
Ministry of Finance

Deparment of Economic Affairs
New Delhi

Department of Finance
Diakarta

Direzione Generale del Tesoro
I.RLF.E.

Ministero del Tesoro

Rome

Minister of Finance
Tokyo

c/o Embassy of Japan
Makati, Rizal
Philippines

Govemor
Bank of Korea
Seoul

COMMUNICATION
COUNTRY CHANNEL

Leos National Bank of Laos
Vientiane

Malaysia Secretary to the Treasury
The Treasury
Kuala Lumpur

Nepal Secretary
Ministry of Finance
Kathmandu

Netherlands Ministerie van Financien
The Hague

New Zealand Secretary of External Affairs
Wellington

Norway

Pakistan

Philippines

Singapore

Sweden

Switzerland

Thailand
United Kingdom
United States

Viet-Nam,
Republic of

Western Samoa

ec: The Secretary to the Treasury
Wellington, New Zealand

Royal Ministry of Commerce and
Shipping

Foreign Exchange Department

Osio

Ministry of Finance

Government of Pakistan

Islamabad

Department of Foreign Affairs
Manila

Permanent Secretary

(Economic Development)
Ministry of Finance
Singapore

Sveriges Riksbank
Helgeandsholmen
Stockholm

. Départment fédéral de !&conomie

publique
Division du Commerce Palais fédéral
Berne
Ministry of Finance
Bangkok
Ministry of Overseas Development *
London
Secretary of the Treasury
Washington, D.C.
Governor
National Bank of Viet-Nam
Saigon
Secretary to the Government
Government of Western Samoa
Apia

7374

APPENDIX 5

 

COUNTRY

Afghanistan

Australia

Austria

Belgium

Cambodia

Canada

Ceyion

China, Republic of

Denmark

Finland

Germany, Federal

Republic of

India

indonesia

Italy

Japan

Korea, Republic of

OFFICIAL DEPOSITORIES

DEPOSITORY
Da Afghanistan Bank
Kabul

Reserve Bank of Australia
Sydney

Oesterreichische Nationalbank
Wien ‘

National Bank of Belgium
Brussels

Banque Nationale du Cambodge
Phnom-Penh

Bank of Canada
Ottawa

Central Bank of Ceylon
Colombo

The Central Bank of China
Taiwan, Taipeh”

Danmarks National Bank
Copenhagen

Suomen Pankki—Finiands Bank
Helsinki

Deutsche Bundesbank
Frankfurt aM.

Reserve Bank of India
Bombay

Bank indonesia
Djakarta

Banca d'Italia
Rome

Bank of Japan
Takyo

Bank of Korea
Seoul

COUNTRY

Laos

Malaysia

Nepat

Netherlands

New Zealand

Norway

Pakistan

Philippines

Singapore

Sweden
Switzerland
Thailand

United Kingdom
United States
Viet-Nam,

Repubiic of

Western Samoa

DEPOSITORY

Banque Nationale du Laos
Vientiane

Bank Negara Malaysia

» Kuala Lumpur

Nepal Rastra Bank
Kathmandu

De Nederlandsche Bank N.V.
Amsterdam

Reserve Bank of New Zealand
Wellington

Norges Bank
Oslo

State Bank of Pakistan
Karachi

Central Bank of the Philippines
Manila

The Accountant General

Accountant General's Department
5th Floor, Fullerton Building
Singapore

Sveriges Riksbank (Bank of Sweden)
Stockholm

Banaue Nationale Suisse

Zurich

Bank of Thailand

Bangkok

Bank of Engiand

Londen

Federal Reserve Bank of New York
New York

Banque Nationale du Viet-Nam
Saigon

Bank of Western Samoa
ApiaAPPENDIX 6

a

ASIAN DEVELOPMENT BANK

BOARD OF GOVERNORS

(As of 31 December, 1968)

i

COUNTRY
AFGHANISTAN

AUSTRALIA

AUSTRIA

BELGIUM

CAMBODIA

CANADA

CEYLON

CHINA, Republic of

DENMARK

FINLAND

GERMANY, Federal Republic of

INDIA

INDONESIA

WILLIAM McMAHON (Australia) Chairman
PEH-YUAN HSU (China) Vice-Chairman

JENS CHRISTENSEN (Denmark) Vice-Chairman

GOVERNOR
ABDUL HAKIM TABIBE
Ambassador to Japan

WILLIAM McMAHON
Treasurer

STEFAN KOREN:
Federal Minister of Finance

BARON J-CH. SNOY ET d'OPPUERS?
Minister of Finance

TOUCH KiM
Governor
National Bank of Cambodia

EDGAR JOHN BENSON‘
Minister of Finance

N. WIMALASENA

Parliamentary Secretary

Ministry of Finance

PEH-YUAN HSU

Governor

Central Bank of China

JENS CHRISTENSEN

Ministry of Foreign Affairs

TANKMAR HORN

Head, Commercial Department

Foreign Ministry

ERHARD EPPLERé

Federal Minister for Economic
Co-operation

MORARJI R. DESAI

Deputy Prime Minister and Minister of

Finance

ALE WARDHANA®
Minister of Finance

ALTERNATE GOVERNOR

ABDUL WAHAB HAIDER

Deputy Minister of Planning

F.C. PRYOR

First Assistant Secretary

Commonwealth Treasury

WERNER SAUTTER?

Ambassador to Thailand

M. d’HAEZE

Director-General

Treasury & Public Debt Administration

Ministry of Finance

PHAN THUL

Director General and Director for
External Affairs

Ministry of Finance

M. F. STRONG

Director-General

External Aid Office

H. E. TENNEKOON

Ambassador to Japan

CHUN HENG TU

Politicat Vice Minister

Ministry of Finance

POUL KRYGERS

Ministry of Foreign Affairs

EERO ASP

Managing Director

Finnish Export Credit Ltd.

JOHANN BAPTIST SCHOELLHORN?

State Secretary

Federal Ministry of Economics

i. G. PATEL

Special Secretary to the Govesnrnent of
India

Department of Economic Affairs

Ministry of Finance

RADIUS PRAWIRO

Governor

Bank Indonesia

rr 75

1 Succeeded Wolfgang Schmitz in April 1968.

2 Succeeded Rudoif Saumann in March 1968.

3 Succeeded Robert Paul on in August 7958.
4 Succeeded Mitchell Shay May 1968,

5 Succeeded Torben Busck-Neilsen in April 1968,

 

 

6 Succeeded Hans Juergen Wischnewski in
December 1968. .

7 Succeeded Fritz Neef in May 1968,

8 Succeeded Frans Seca in August 1963.76

APPENDIX 6

COUNTRY
ITALY

JAPAN

KOREA, Republic of

LAOS

MALAYSIA

NEPAL

NETHERLANDS
NEW ZEALAND
NORWAY
PAKISTAN

PHILIPPINES

SINGAPORE

SWEDEN

SWITZERLAND

THAILAND

UNITED KINGDOM OF GREAT
BRITAIN AND NORTHERN
IRELAND

UNITED STATES OF AMERICA

VIET-NAM, Repubtic of

WESTERN SAMOA

$l

GOVERNOR

GUIDO CARLI
Governor

Bank of Italy
TAKEO FUKUDA®
Minister of Finance

JONG RYUL WHANG!6
Minister of Finance

SISOUK NA CHAMPASSAK
Minister of Finance

TAN SIEW SIN
Minister of Finance

BHEKH BAHADUR THAPA
Secretary of Finance

H. J. WITTEVEEN

Minister of Finance

R. D. MULDOON

Minister of Finance

KAARE WILLOCH

Minister of Commerce and Shipping
N. M. UQUAILI

Minister of Finance

EDUARDO Z. ROMUALDEZ
Secretary of Finance

GOH KENG SWEE
Minister of Finance

G. STRAENG

Minister of Finance
EDWIN STOPPER
President

Board of Directors

Swiss National Bank
SERM VINICCHAYAKUL
Minister of Finance

REGINALD PRENTICE
Minister of Overseas Development

JOSEPH W. BARR?
Secretary of the Treasury

NGUYEN HUU HANH
GUSTAV FREDERICK DERTAG
BETHAM

Minister of Finance

9 Succeeded Mikio Mizuta in December 1968:
40 Succeeded Bong Kyun Suh in May 1968.

11 Succeeded Nikorn Phankongsy in February 1968.

ALTERNATE GOVERNOR

GAETANO STAMMATI

General Manager and Cabinet Head
Ministry of Treasury

MAKOTO USAMI

Governor

Bank of Japan

JIN SOO SUH

Governor

Bank of Korea

OUDONG SOUVANNAVONGU
Governor

National Bank of Laos

ISMAIL BIN MOHAMED ALI
Governor

Bank Negara Malaysia

KALYAN BIKRAM ADHIKARY
Acting Secretary

Ministry of Commerce and Industry
G. J. DISSEVELT

Ambassador to the Philippines
H. G. LANG!2

Deputy Secretary to Treasury
AXEL MOLTKE-HANSEN
Ambassador to the Philippines

1, A. KHAN

Secretary

Economic Affairs Division
Islamabad

GREGORIO LICAROS
Chairman

Board of Governors
Development Bank of the Philippines
SIM KEE BOON

Permanent Secretary,

Economic Development Division
Ministry of Finance

H. WICKMAN

Minister of State for Economic Affairs
ALEXANDRE HAY
Director-General

Swiss National Bank

SOMMAI HOONTRAKOOL
Director

Assistant to the Governor

Bank of Thailand

R. H. BELCHER

Under Secretary

Ministry of Overseas Developrnent
WILLIAM S. GAUD
Administrator

Agency for international Development
NGUYEN VAN DONG

Deputy Governor

National Bank of Viet-Nam
KARANITA ENARI

Secretary to the Government

 

32 Succeeded N. V. Lough in March 1968.
13 Succeeded Henry H. Fowler in DecemberAPPENDIX 7

 

BOARD OF DIRECTGRS AND VOTING GROUPS

 

Director

* Helmut Abramowski

Cornelio Balmaceda

Byung Kyu Chun

Masaru Fukuda
R. J. Whitelaw

R. A. Kartadjoemena

Lim Taik Choon

P.V. R. Rao

W. K. Wardroper

Bernard Zagorin

(As of 31 December, 1968)

Alternate

Denis Forthomme

Wazir Ali

Buu Hoan

Fumio Kawano
F. R. Dalrymple

VM. Peries

Chanchai Leetavorn

J. R. Hiremath

R. W. H. du Boulay

George R. Jacobs

 

 

Countries Represented*

Germany, Federal Republic of
italy

Netherlands

Austria

Belgium .

Philippines

Pakistan

Korea, Republic of
China, Republic of
Viet-Nam, Republic of

“Japan

Australia

Indonesia
Ceylon
Afghanistan
Cambodia
Nepal

Laos

New Zealand
Malaysia
Thailand
Singapore
Western Samoa

India

United Kingdom
Canada
Denmark
Finland

Norway
Sweden

United States

77
* In order of voting strength within each group.78

APPENDIX 8

 

PRINCIPAL OFFICERS

 

Takeshi Watanabe

C. S. Krishna Moorthi

OFFICE OF THE SECRETARY

Douglas C. Gunesekera

Wilfred A. Vawdrey

OFFICE OF THE GENERAL COUNSEL

Timothy B. Atkeson

OPERATIONS DEPARTMENT

Howard Farrelly
Koji Suzuki

Agne B. Iwarsson
Bong H. Kay

C. S. Venkat Rao

President

Vice-President

Secretary

‘Assistant Secretary

Genera! Counsel

Director

Deputy Director

Chief Engineer

Assistant Director (for Western Region)

Assistant Director (for Eastern Region)ECONOMIC AND TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE DEPARTMENT

Sam-Chung Hsieh
George Rosen
Herbert F. Huehne

K. L. Luthra

ADMINISTRATION DEPARTMENT

Masao Fujioka

Raymond B. Lyon

F. R. S. Weereratne

Paul A. Mayer

OFFICE OF THE TREASURER

S. M.A, Kazmi

Edgar Plan

INTERNAL AUDITOR'S OFFICE

Carl J. Lemvig-Fog

INFORMATION OFFICE

P. S. Hariharan

Director
Deputy Director
Assistant Director Technical Assistance Division

Advisor (Transportation)

Director
Deputy Director
Assistant Director (for General Services}

Assistant Director (for Personnel)

Treasurer

Financia! Advisor and Deputy Treasurer

Internal Auditor

Chief information Officer

SE 73APPENDIX $

 

REGIONAL TRANSPORT SURVEY STEERING COMMITTEE

 

DR. WILFRED OWEN

PROF. F. W. ANDERSON

MR. BERNARD BELL

PROF. H. C. BOS

MR. MASOOD HUSAIN

PROF. SUSUMU KOBE

MR. R. KRISHNAMURTI

MR. H. T. LOXTON

PROF, SABURO OKITA

MRS. SUPARB YOSSUNDARA

MR. K. L. LUTHRA

 

Senior Fellow of the Brookings Institution, Washington, D.C. (Chairman)
Protessor of Economics, University of Saskatchewan, Regina

Head of the IBRD Mission in Indonesia, Djakarta

Professor of Development Planning. Netherlands School of Economics, Rotterdam
Director of Transport and Communication Division, ECAFE, Bangkok

Advisor (Transportation), United Nations Headquarters, New York

Acting Director, Manufactures Division, UNCTAD, Geneva

Chairman, Coramonwealth Bureau of Roads, Canberra

President, Japan Economic Research Center, Tokyo

Director, Assistant to the Gavernar, Central Bank of Thailand, Bangkok

Advisar (Transportation), Asian Development Bank {Secretary)

a INN Nt AREY A tres

Designed by Graham Wade

Printed by John Sands Pty. Ltd, Sydney, Australia