ASIAN DEVELOPMENT BANK
MANILA

10 February 1970

Dear Mr. Chairman:

With respect to Article 39 of the Articles of

Agreement of the Asian Development Bank and in
accordance with Section 13 of the By-Laws of the
Bank, | submit to the Board of Governors, on
behalf of the Board of Directors, the enclosed
Annual Report on the operations and policies of the
Bank in 1969, including a separate report on the
activities of the Special Funds of the Bank. The
Report also includes the financial statements prescribed in Section 15 of the By-Laws.

Sincerely yours,

Tah ea
TAKESH! WATANABE

President and
Chairman of the Board of Directors

Chairman
Board of Governors
Asian Development Bank

 

:
j
i
}
}
j
i
}
i
|
iCONTENTS

President's Letter of Transmittal

introduction

Part !—Operations

A, Loans and Technical Assistance

B. Regional Activities

Cc. Relations with Other International
Organizations “

Part H—Ordinary Capital Resources

Part I!i—Special Funds

A. Special Funds Operations
B. Speciat Funds Resources

Page

3

10

15
36

41
43

47

49
50

Part |V—Administration and Organization 53

Part V—Appendices

1. Financial Statements and Opinions of
Independent Auditors
Summary of Administrative Budget
Resolutions of Board of Governors
during 1969
Channels of Communication
Official Depositories
Board of Governors

ON

4,
5.
6.
7.
8.

Principal Officers

Propet Photographs by T

   

Board of Directors and Voting Groups

 

57

59
98

98
99
100
101
104
105

Punema.

Sa RAYS IEE PRO EI

 

|

sabi Sacd bon secae a aoatasap ae rotNe

 

ica erat uanergucrahs aan iC SPESD ERE TRE es spats

 

INTRODUCTION

 

The third year of the Asian Development
Bank’s existence, 1969, was marked by a
rapid expansion of activities in fulfilment of
the Bank’s role in promoting economic development in Asia.

New loan approvals in 7969 amounted to
$98.10 million*, more than double the commitments in the previous year. Twenty
loans—including six on concessional terms—
were made to 10 developing member countries. Together with the seven loans approved
in 1968, the Bank’s total lending reached
$139.70 million* spread over 11 countries.

Thirteen technical assistance projects in 10
countries involving a commitment of $2.23
million were approved, raising total commitments to $3.44 million. Regional activities
included the inauguration of two major surveys. /

The Bank successfully made its first bond
issue in September in an amount of Deutsche
Mark 60 million. Funds available for ordinary
operations, including the proceeds of. the
bond issue, increased to $401 million and
commitments reached nearly $118 million*.
Special Funds resources rose by $39.40 million to just under $85 million; commitments
incurred in concessional loans amounted to
$22 million. :

The number of professional staff rose by
over 50 per cent and basic organizational
changes were made. .

Collectively, these developments demonstrate that the Bank has laid a solid. groundwork for systematic growth in its operational
activities.

*Includes (i) a fozn of $10 million to Thailand from the
ordinary capital resources and (i) a loan of $6.01 miliion
to Nepal fram the Special Funds resources approved in
December put signed after the close of the financial year
and therefore not included in tne relevant financial statements (Appendix I-IV anc Appendix 1-C, respectively).

 

Dollar(s) or $ in this Report means United States Doltar(s)
unless otherwise specified.LOANS
APPROVALS IN 1969:

Country/Borrower

CEYLON
Ceylon

REPUBLIC OF CHINA
Republic of China

Taiwan Aluminium
Corporation

Taiwan Metal Mining
Corporation

Republic of China

INDONESIA
Republic of tndonesia 
Republic of Indonesia

 

REPUBLIC OF KOREA
Korea Cold Storage .
Company .
Korea Express
Company
Medium Industry
Bank .
MALAYSIA
Malaysia

: Malaysia
Malaysia
NEPAL
Kingdom of Nepal

PHILIPPINES
Philippine National Bank

Republic of the
Philippines
SINGAPORE
Development Bank of
Singapore
THAILAND
Industrial Finance
Corporation of Thailand
WESTERN SAMOA
Independent State .
of Western Samoa

 

 

 

*For these development bank loans, the term re:
**At the rate prevailing at the time of crediting ti

Project

Walawe Development

Deep-Sea Fisherles
Development

Aluminium Piant
Expansion

Copper Fabrication
Plant

+ Hualien Harbor Development

Tadjum Irrigation

Sawit Sebarang Oil
Palm Estate

Cold Storage

Transportation and
Stevedoring

Financing Smail and
Medium Industries

Bukit Mendi & Bukit

Goh Palm Oi Mills
Kuching Port Expansion
Sarawak Electricity Supply

Air Transport
Development

To relend to Private
Development
Corporation of the
Philippines for
Financing Private
industrial & Other
Productive Enterprises

Cotabato frrigation

Financing Manufacturing
& Service industries

Financing Industrial
Enterprises

Faieoio Airport &
Road

 

   
  
   
  
 
    
  
  
   
  
    
   
    
 
   
   
  
 
  
 
   
   
 
   

 

Term (years)

 

 

Amount Dats ine, Grace Interest
{$ million) Approved Period %
7.705 23 October 25 3
(concessional)
0.885 15 67/8
10.000 28 March 13 67/8
2.670 2ONovember 13 6-7/8
1.4850 20 November 12 6-7/8
0.990 4 December 13 6-7/8
ogso 17 June 24-1/2 3
{concassional}
2.400 21 October 24-1/2 3
(concessional)
7.000 13 March 15-1/2 67/83 |
|
7,500 4 September 10-1/2 8-7/8 j
4
10,000 16 December ' 15* +
2.800 11 February 20 6-7/8 v
6.000 13 November 25 6-7/8
3.100 18 December 20 6-7/8
6.010 18 December 30 2
{concessional}
5.000 4 March 12* “*
2.500 18 November 25 3
(concessional)
40.000 26 June 14* “
10,000 16 December 42* **
2.400 16 December 30 4-1/2

(concessional)

presents the maximum period for repayment of sub-joans.
he loan account.Country

 

PROJECT PREPARATION
AFGHANISTAN

INDONESIA

MALAYSIA

WESTERN SAMOA

ADVISORY
CEYLON

INDONESIA
MALAYSIA
NEPAL

PHILIPPINES
THAILAND

 

REGIONAL

Oe

Project

Selected Small-Scale Irrigation .
Projects

Feasibility Study on Sempor
Dam Reconstruction

Feasibility Study on Development of
Kuala Lumpur-Karak Highway

Faleolo Airport and Road Development

Ceylon Fisheries Corporation
Walawe Development Project

Sawit Sebarang Oit Palm Estate
Oil Palm Products Marketing Study

Advisors to Agricultural Development Bank of Nepal (2nd phase}

Air Transport Development
Project

Water Management (2nd hase}

Accelerated Rural Development‘
Program

Agricultural Development Program.
ming in the Nong Wai Pioneer
Irrigated Agriculture Project

Asian Vegetable Research
and Development Center

Regional Transport Survey

Study of Southeast Asan Economy
in the 1970's

: SERVICES TO MEMBER COUNTRIES (TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE)

APPROVALS IN 1969

Amount Date
$ Approved
164,000 29 Suly
328,000 . 27 March
192,000 13 November
56,000 18 February
765,000 2 October
400,000 23 October
42,008 27 December
80,000 23 September
69,000 22 May
356,000 18 December
102,000 26 June
105,000 23 September
480,000 S October
306,000 14 March
* 5 June
250,000 9 October

* Total cost is subject to review by Board of Directors in 1970 after preparation of the
Inception Report; will include contribution by United States of $1 miltion from Technical
Assistance Special Fund and contribution of $1.08 million fram United Nations Development

Programme.The most significant development of the
year was the introduction by the Bank in
June of lending on concessional terms: by
year-end six loans involving a total commitment of $22.00 million had been made to five
member countries—in two cases in association
with technical assistance grants.

Special Funds contributions amounted to
$84,92 million at the end of the year, including new contributions in 1969 from member
countries amounting to $24.83 million and
$14.57 million “set aside’ from the Bank’s
capital in accordance with the Charter provisions, Capital contributors to’ the Special
Funds resources are: Canada, Denmark,

Japan and the Netherlands; contributions for
technical assistance have been received from
Canada, Denmark, Finland, Federat Repubtic
of Germany, Japan, New Zealand, United
Kingdom and United States.

The bulk of the new Specia! Funds resources was made available to the Bank on
significantly liberalized conditions; areas of
procurement have been extended and the
Bank is now in a better position to jend from
the contributions for deserving projects on
more liberal terms. This development is exceedingly welcome and encouraging; but there
are countries which cannot -accelerate their

development efforts unless they receive in
SHARE OF CONCESSIONAL LOANS
AND ORDINARY LOANS

1968creased aid on terms that they can afford. The
cneed for additional contributions to the
Bank’s Special Funds—on conditions as liberal
“vag possible—is thus both urgent and substanee Sical assistance plays a vital and at
fimes an. indispensable role in the Bank’s
‘activities. [t has proved particularly useful to
“ynemiber countries which are less experienced
inpreparing and managing an expanding range
of devélopmerital projects.
Many. of the projects financed in 1969,
both from ordinary capital and Special Funds
resources, owe their origin to the technical
assistance activities undertaken by the Bank
Sn earlier years: In fact a notable feature of
‘year was the close link which emerged
tiveen the Bank’s technical assistance activ: ahd project financing operations.
‘he. Bank engaged in four large-scale re{activities’ during the year: a Regional
nar.on Agriculture was held in Sydney at
me of the Annual Meeting of the Board
ovefnors asa follow-up to the Asian
ultural’ Survey completed in 1968; a
ferente ‘of ‘Development Banks of Asia
as convened by.the Bank in Manila in July;
two-major surveys were inaugurated—a
gional ‘Transport Survey and a Study of the
east Asian Economy in the 1970’s.

 

 

he Bank’s record of performance in the
“three years clearly reflects its mounting
npact on the region. There is a growing appreciation of the fact that the Bank has a
. Substantial and distinctive role to fulfil! in the
economic development of Asia. The needs,
_the problems, the .objectives—and above all
.. the hopes—of the Asian region may not differ
materially in the long term from those elsewhere; but at any given time, the techniques
and processes needed may be quite different
from those fashioned for use in other areas.
_While a knowledge of the skills and techniques developed elsewhere js important and
essential, the “know-how” of regional development must have an indigenous basis. And

im

eteaesceeonvrae

g

mm

 

  

just as the Bank's capital structure has relied
on both regional and non-regional subscrip-“
tions, with the regional share predominating,
the Bank’s professional staff (141) draws
mainly on regional resources but includes, in
a harmonious blend, non-regional expertise
and experience as well. The increasing proficiency of the staff in regional economic
affairs was a significant factor in the general
intensification of operational activities in the
past year, as was, of course, the continuing
responsiveness of the developing member
countries in the sometimes complex task of
project appraisal and joan negotiation.

As a regional institution located within the
area it serves, the Bank is able to establish
attitudes and evoke responses which give good
ground for confidence that a speciafly successful partnership with its regional clients is in
process of emerging. While the Bank’s level of financing is still modest in relation to the
needs of the region, the record and experience of 1969 lend substance to this confidence in the Bank’s potential role.

 

a i

ted pilot project for irtigation water man
 

agement improvement in the Angat River Irrigation System
(ARIS; in the Philippines. The technical assistance has now
been extended for a second year of operation.LOANS

CUMULATIVE COMMITMENTS AS OF 31 DECEMBER 1969"

in Million Dollars

 

 

Country — ‘Ordinary Resources a . Special Funds _ Total
Ceylon : 2,885 7.705 . 10.590
Republic of China : 25,410 _ 25.410
Indonesia ~ 3,380 3.390 :
Republic of Korea 31,300 - 31.300 :
Malaysia 18.100 - 18,100
Nepal = 6.010 . 6.010 :
Pakistan 10.000 : . = 10,000 :
Philippinas 5.000 2.500 7,500 z
Singapore 10,000 a 10,000
Thailand 15,000 ~ 15,000!
Western Samoa - 2.400 2.400
TOTAL . ~ "117.695 —! 22,005 ‘ : 139,700

 

*See footnote on page 3

omSS RRS Ra ac TaN ER ST a wt dee

SERVICES TO MEMBER COUNTRIES (TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE)

CUMULATIVE COMMITMENTS AS OF 31 DECEMBER 1969”

 

 

 

 

   

in Dollars
4 icc tits aioe
2 Country Project Preparation Advisory and Operational Total
Ba ——. rm
: Afghanistan 164,000 - 164,000
i Ceyion - 565,000 565,000
3 Republic of China 100,000 = 400,000
& indonesia 328,000 352,450 680,450
&
3 Republic of Korea 66,500 66,500
=
3 Laos - 221,000 : 221,000
S Malaysia 192,000 80,000 272,000
& Nepal 66,000 454,000 520,000
& Philippines 225,000 207,000 432,000
=
s Thaitand -, 285,000 285,000
= Republic of Viet-Nam = 89,000 89,000
: Western Samoa 50,000 - 50,000
# nen —
a TOTAL 1,128,000 2,319,950 3,444,950

rN si saat staat eames tami:

 

Excluding regional Projects (see page 13),

™Twenty loans amounting to $98.10 miilion* were

approved during the year, in comparison with seven
loans tota!ling $47.60 million in 1968. The interest
rate for project loans made from ordinary capital
was maintained at 67/8 per cent. Loans from
Special Funds resources were made at interest rates
ranging from 1-1/2 to 3 per cent. (See table on page
4 for other terms.)

The loans were spread over 1 projects in 10
countries and covered a wide range of developmental activity in the fields of agriculture, including
irrigation and fisheries; industry, including nonferrous and medium-scale and smali-scale enterprises
and agriculturally-related industries; and power and
transportation facilities, including roads, ports and
airports, g

For the first time, loans were made on concessional terms from the Bank’s Special Funds resources—six “soft’’ foans totailing $22.00 million
spread over five countries. (For a general description
of Special Funds Operations, see Part 111.)

As in the previous year, .all joans were made for
projects which, after careful appraisal by the staff,
were found to be economically and technically
sound.

Included in the projects approved during the year
were four loans to development financing institutions in the Republic of Korea, the Philippines,
Singapore and Thailand, making a total of six loans

_ to intermediary financing institutions since the
Bank’s operations commenced in 1968.

The Board of Directors gave preliminary consideration during the year to various policy aspects of
lending to development banks and other intermediary financing institutions. tn the light of additional experience gained in this branch of operations, the Board is expected to resume its consideration of such policy early in the new year. In
formulating policies in this sector, the Bank has also
benefited from the discussions at the Fourth Regional Conference of Development Banks of Asia

. Sonvened by the Bank in Manila in July.

Early in the year the Board adopted a set of
guidelines on Technical Assistance Operations. These
guidelines covered certain Operational principles and
objectives, the scope, type and procedures for extending assistance and the methods of financing
Such assistance.

. Thirteen technical assistance requests—mainly in
igriculture and fisheries, transportation and develop
* See footnote on pege 3.

 

A general view of the Kaonsiung refinery of the
Chinese Petroleum Corporation which has received ¢ Bank
loan to cover the foreign exchange cost of the construction and start-up of a petrochemical /dimezhyl terephthalate) plant

“ment banking—from 10 countries were approved in

1969 for a total estimated outlay in grantslof $2.23
million, as compared with 11 proposals totalling
$1.14 million in 1968.

A feature of some of the more recent technical
assistance activities has been the increased emphasis
on feasibility studies and project formulation. The
Cold Storage Project in the Republic of Korea, the
Cotabato Irrigation Project in the Philippines, the
Air Transport Development Project in Nepal and the
Faleclo Airport and Road Project in Western Samoa
are instances of projects where the Bank's involvement in the preparation of feasibility studies led to
specific Joan commitments. It is hoped that similar
results will accrue from the feasibility studies undertaken by the Bank for the North-South Freeway
Project in the Republic of China, the Fisheries Port
Construction Project in the Philippines and the
Sempor Dam Reconstruction Project in Indonesia.
Less directly, the Foodgrain Mission to Indonesia in
1967 led to the identification of the two loan projects from Special Funds resources approved during
1968 (see table on page 4.)

In some cases, associated technical assistance has
been found to be necessary in the implementation
of foan projects. The Walawe Development Project
in Ceylon, the Tadjum’ irrigation and the Sawit
Sebarang Oil Paim Estate Projects in Indonesia and

if the technicai assistance results in loan financing, cart
or ali of the grant may, in certain cases, be incarporated, at the oation of the Bank, in the ‘oan.

 

1

SG DEO asset ainda app aise|
i

i2

the Air Transport Development Project in Nepai are
instances where technical assistance has been ex.
tended to complement and Strengthen operational
capability, . .
Training of personnel and the strengthening of
management have been other important features of
the Bank’s technical assistance activities. The inte.
grated Walawe Development Project in Ceylon
includes the training of extension workers; the Air
Transport Development Project in Nepal envisages
the training of staff in the principal aspects of
project management: in-service training in Water
Management in the Philippines will be continued
under an extended technical assistance project; and

(MILLION DOLLARS)
410

 

108

30

LOANS BY SECTOR: 1968—i969

operators and mechanics involved in construction of
the Tadjum frrigation Project in indonesia and staff
for a related “pilot” scheme will be given training on
the job,

The Bank also provides advisory services in certain fields of economic activity. It is, for instance,
helping to provide the basic material for the plan~
ning of overali economic development in several
countries; it is supporting regiona} research institytions; and it is also carrying out surveys in fields of
economic activity relevant to its own banking operations but not necessarity related in a direct way to
individual projects,

 
 
 

 

80

70

a0

 

BO

 

40.

30

 

20

 

 

10

     

  

*FOR RE-LENDING TO MEDIUM AND SMALL-SCALE INOUSTRIES

Lon

Bi

TRANSPORTATION &
PUBLIC UTILITIESi i the tea factory on
ifti rations in progress at the ‘y On
Se eta te. A Bank loan will assist the moderni
nuwella esta A Ba x
Selon of tea factories in Ceylon.

 

 

SERVICES TO MEMBER COUNTRIES (TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE)

Commitments by Sector: 1967-1969

 

3967 1968 : 1969 1967—1969

ps : praeues — neater ee —

Agricutture & Fisheries 80,000 847,950 7,566,000 2,493,950
Transportation 166,000 592,000 , 758,000
Development Banking 124,000 89,000 193,600
criti rg og apenas au ceuenSea e sa

Total 80,000

4,137,950 2,227,000

REGIONAL PROJECTS 1967-1969

 

¥ Asian Agricultural Survey ——
Regional Transport Survey :
Study of Southeast Asian Economy in the 1970's 250,000
Asian Vegetable Research and Development Center 300,000

*Total cost is subject to review by Board of Directors in 2970 after sreparation of ine
Inception Report; will include contribution by United States of $1 million from Technical
Assistance Special Fund and contribution of $1.08 million from United Nations evelopment
Programme,Since the beginning of its operations the Bank
has aimed at cultivating close working relationships
with its developing members. The reconnaissance
missions conducted in the first year established the
pattern of mutual consultation and discussion which
has been found valuable ever since. The Asian Agricultural Survey which was started in 1867 and completed in 1968 reinforced these relationships in the
agricultural fiefd,

Although, with the growth of Operations, the
need for general reconnaissance missions has largely
disappeared, the Bank is now in regular communication, through its normal Operational activities, with
all the developing members which have sought its
assistance. 3

The development of these close contacts has provided staff members with an expanding store of
knowledge and experience of the economic conditions and problems of the developing members. As a
result, the Bank has considerably enhanced its capacity to participate with member countries in the
identification of projects and to adopt, where necessary, an integrated approach to project preparation.
Special efforts have beeri made to extend assistance
in project preparation—and in other forms of technical assistance~to the smaller and less-developed
countries, for which the Bank has a special responsibility under its Charter.

Close relationships have been helpful in the
speedier processing of loan applications: in one or
two cases, loan approvals were completed within
three or four months of the applications being
made.

Partly at feast as a consequence of these close
bonds, a steady “pipeline” of projects under consideration for financing has developed. The Bank is
convinced of the importance of cooperative efforts
with its developing member countries in identifying
and preparing new projects in order to ensure a
steady flow of loan proposals.

The following sections contain descriptions, categorized by countries, of the Joan and technical

- assistance projects approved in 1969. A section on
regional projects follows thereafter,

   

thider the Penang Water Supply Project, which is being
financed by the Bank, water will be transferred from
Butterworth an the maintand fo the istend of Penang by
means of suinnarine pipetines, Photographs show, the si

 

Where the pipelines will be Connected un the Penang §
and project afficiats scrutinizing technical detaitsmy

eT RT IE

 

A. LOANS AND TECHNICAL
ASSISTANCE

AFGHANISTAN

Technical Assistance

Technical assistance to Afghanistan for the prepa
ration of a number of small-scale irrigation projects
for possible future financing was approved by the
Bank on 29 July at an estimated cost of $164,000.
Agricultural productivity in the arid areas of
Afghanistan can be significantly increased through
the provision of irrigation water which would facilitate intensified use of other inputs, In many areas,
the value of irrigation is widely recognized as is
evident from the existence of numerous small communal irrigation systems. However, most of these
systems need rehabilitation and technical improvement to increase their effectiveness: several appear
promising for development into modern efficient
Systems which would permit double cropping and
thereby contribute substantially to the country's
economy.
; Accordingly technical improvement of the small
'rigation systems is among the top priority developMent items in the current Third Five-Year Economic and Social Plan (1967-1971) and led to the
Fequest for assistance from the Bank. The technica!
assistance mission commenced work in October,
with individual experts in the 10-man team due to
Pit varying periods of up to six months in the
in ae mission will Investigate 2 number of existio I ‘gation projects and undertake project
iene oF four or five of the most promising of
OF possible financing by the Bank.

CEYLON

Loan

WALAWE DEVELOPMENT PROJECT

$7,705,000 for 25 years {including 7-year grace
period)
at 3% (Special! Funds}

$885,000 for 15 years {including 5-year grace
period)
at 6-7/8%

Approved 23 October 1969

Borrower: CEYLON

The Walawe:- Development Scheme, to be administered by the River Valleys Development Board, is a
plan to bring under irrigation a total area of 80,000
acres in the Walawe River Valley. The Scheme has

been accorded high priority by the Government

within the overall water resources development and
resettlement program of the country. The Bank is
to finance part of the cost of the Right Bank Area
of the Scheme.

The Project involves improvement of the existing
irrigation system and land utilization, construction
of new irrigation facilities and settiements, development of the economic and social infrastructure, and
the establishment of an Agricultural Experiment and
Extension Center. The primary objective of the Project is to irrigate a net area of 33,000 acres for
double cropping of paddy, to provide farm houses
and the necessary basic community facilities for
3,440 new settlers and to improve the production
and living conditions of 3,100 old settlers,

The total estimated cost of the Project is a little
over $26 million. The Bank's financial assistance
will cover the foreign exchange component. The
Specia! Funds loan will be used for the procurement
of construction equipment, machinery and spares,
construction and workshop materials, agricultural
inputs, etc. The foan of $885,000 wil! finance the
procurement of tractors and equipment for two
model rice mills.

Technical Assistance

To ensure successful implernentation of the comprehensive development program under the Walawe
Development Project, and to secure the fullest possible economic benefit therefrom, the Government

|

 

m6of Ceylon requested the Bank to add a technical
assistance grant of $400,000 to the loans of $8.59
million. The technical assistance grant was approved,
‘together with the loans, on 23 October 1969,

Under the technical assistance grant the Bank
will provide the River Valleys Development Board
with a management advisor on organization, management, planning and coordination of the Board's
comprehensive and complex development operations, and three experts and certain equipment for
the initial operation of the Agricultural Experiment
and Extension Center to be established in the Project area. Two of the experts are to commence their
two-year terms in February 1970, and the other
two will commence work later in 1970,

 

The purpose of the Extension Center is to ensure
the training of extension staff and settlers and a
continuous flow of technical knowledge and agricultural extension services to the farmers. The work
of the three experts—in farm irrigation and water
management, field crop agronomy and technology,
and agricultural economics and farm management—
will be vital to the successful development of intensive irrigated farming with diversified cropping patterns, hitherto not practiced in Ceylon,

A grant of $165,000 to the Government of
Ceylon for technical assistance to the Ceylon Fisheries Corporation {CFC) in the field of fisheries
management and technology improvement was
approved on 2 October.

Fish constitutes a popular item of food and an
important source of animal protein in the Ceylonese
diet. Although the production of fish increased from
40,500 tons in 1958 to 115,000 tons in 1968, the
rise has not been adequate to meet domestic
demand. About half of the total domestic requirements is imported, costing the country about $10
to 12 million in foreign exchange each year.

The most important Government agency in the
fishing industry is the CFC which was established in
4964 to increase the Production of fish, promote
the fish processing industries and prepare development plans for the fisheries sector,

With the aim of helping the CFC operate as a
strong and economically viable institution, the
Government requested technical assistance from the
Bank. The seven-man technical assistance mission to
be provided will assist and advise the CFC on
matters related to its institutional framework and
organizational! set-up; the formulation and execution
of development projects; the assessment of resources
and preparation of a test fishing program; the
marketing of fish and by-products; the expansion
and maintenance of workshop facilities, and
methods of increasing the fish catch and making
Tulter use of boats,

Fishing activities near the Negoinbo fisheries training
center, A Bank technical assistance mission will advise and
assist the state-owned Ceyton Fisheries Corporation in
regard to its organization and operations and draw up a
test fishing program.Loans

OFEP-SEA FISHERIES DEVELOPMENT PROJECT

proved 28 March 1969
rower: REPUBLIC OF CHINA

> object of the Bank's loan is to assist in
g the construction and out-fitting of forty
n.‘class tuna deep-sea fishing vessels. Total
thé :Project is estimated at $16.70 million
‘Bank is financing the foreign exchange

ent: The proceeds of the loan are to be

wan. Fisheries Bureau which will also superhe ‘operations of the various companies to

  

Ege Tuna
Qt its Ki

Fishing vessels under construction by the Taiwan Machinery Manufacturing Corporation

The vessels will be constructed in local shipyards
using imported materiais and equipment and will be
capable of year-round operations from overseas
bases in the Indian and Atlantic Oceans or other
fishing grounds. The home base will be Kaohsiung
where a deep-sea fishing harbor is nearing completion.

The Taiwan tuna industry has developed rapidly
in recent years, with production inereasing from
about 8,000 tons in 1958 to 39,585 tons in 1967,
Further expansion is expected under the Government’s Five-Year Program for Accelerating Taiwan
Fisheries Development, to which the Project wilt
make a significant contribution. Ninety-five per cent
of the tuna catch is expected to be exported and
foreign exchange earnings that may result from the
Project are estimated at $5.50 million per annum,
Additional -benefits are anticipated through expanded employment opportunities and better utifization of existing ship-building and related shore
facilities.

ALUMINIUM PLANT EXPANSION PROJECT
$2,670,000 for 13. years (including 3-year grace
period}

at 6-7/8%
Approved 20 November 1969
Borrower: TAIWAN ALUMINIUM CORPORATION
Guarantor: REPUBLIC OF CHINA

   

" 250-ton esune dockyard. A Bank loan will finance the constuction and outfitting of forty

loss tuna tong-liner deep-sea fishing vessets.18

Loading of aluminium rolls at the Taiwan Aluminium
Corporation which is undertaking an expansion program
with Bank assistance,

The purpose of the Bank’s loan is to finance the
foreign exchange cost of certain activities included
in the second expansion program of the Taiwan
Aluminium Corporation {TALCO}, The total cost of
these activities is $6.45 million,

TALCO, a wholly-owned Government corporation, was incorporated in 1954. its activities include
the manufacture of pure alumimium alloys, rolled
aluminium sheets, coils and extrusions and manufac.
ture and sale of other aluminium products. The
head office and al! plant facilities are located at
Kaohsiung.

In 1967, TALCO embarked upon an expansion
Program to increase its alumina plant capacity from
42,000 metric tons to ‘76,000 metric tons per
annum by October 1970 and smeiting plant capacity from 20,000 metric tons of primary aluminium
to 38,000 metric tons per annum in 1971. As part
of this program, TALCO ‘is expanding its fabrication
facilities to produce semi-finished and finished products and so achieve a greater degree of forward
integration in its manufacturing activities. By the
middie of 1972 it will become mainly a supplier of
semi and end products rather than of ingots.

The activities which the Bank is helping to
finance include: {i} construction of an unloading
Pier and a bauxite conveying system; (ii) modification of a cold strip mil! to increase coil sheet
production by 5,000 metric tons per annum; {ili)
construction of an alloy rod and wire mill with a
capacity of 2,000 metric tons per annum; (iv) construction of a shipping and railway container plant
{capacity 2,400 to 3,000 units of shipping containers
and 1,800 units of railway containers per annum};
and {v) installation of a super-purity aluminium
refinery and a super-purity etched foil plant.

The Project, which is expected to be completed
by the end of 1971, will result in significant foreign
exchange earnings through exports and savings in
foreign exchange outlays through reduced reliance
on imports.

COPPER FABRICATION PLANT PROJECT
$7,150,000 for 12 years {including 3-year grace
period}

at 6-7/8%
Approved 20 November 1969
Borrower: TAIWAN METAL MINING CORPORA.
TION
Guarantor: REPUBLIC OF CHINA

 

The Bank’s loan of $1.15 million will cover the
foreign exchange component involved in the establishment at Tao-Yuan Hsien, 50 miles south of
Taipei, of a copper fabrication plant. The tota! cost
of the Project is $1.975 million.

The plant will be set up by the Taiwan Meta!
Mining Corporation (TMMIC), a wholly-owned
Government corporation incorporated in 1955, with
mining interests in the North of Taiwan, and will
produce annually (i) high quality copper Strips (200
metric tons}; (ti) high quality brass strips (400
metric tons); {ii} copper magnet wires (1,200
metric tons}; and (iv) 1FT shield cans, an electronic
part used in transistor radios (36 million pieces).

At present, none of these products is produced
in the Republic of China in the desired quantity
and quality; the new plant will supply the growing
needs of the rapidly expanding electronics, automobile and electrical appliances industries for
copper parts.

The Project, which is essentially an attempt by
TMMIC at forward integration, is expected to be
completed by March 1972 and will generate savings
in foreign exchange as the fabricated copper products replace imports.ex ove being transported for processing at the

ek Metal Mining Corporation in the Chin-Qua-Shih
: rhe Corporation is setting up a copper fabrication

tant with the assistance of @ Bank loan,

HUALIEN HARBOUR DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
$990,000 for 13 years {including 3-year grace
period)

at 6-7/8%

Approved 4 December 1969

Borrower: REPUBLIC OF CHINA

The development of Hualien Harbour on the east
-cdast of Taiwan involves extension of port facilities,
Including construction of three wharves and one
cargo shed, widening and deepening of the entrance
channel and the dredging of the harbor basin to a
depth of Ii meters to permit entry of vessels up to
15,000 tons. At present, the maximum size of
vessels that can enter Hualien Harbour is 8,000
tons. The Bank’s loan will finance the purchase of a
dipper dredger, the cost of which jis estimated at
$990,000 in foreign exchange.

Development of the east coast of Taiwan has
been relatively restricted and lack of transport faciiities has hampered economic advancement in this
Fegion. Hualien Harbour is a major distribution
center on the east coast and its improvement will
help to accelerate the overall economic progress of
the entire east coast of Taiwan. Total traffic
through the port is expected to increase from

; A Bank-assistea Program to develop Hualien harbour
mvolves construction of three wharves, a transit shed and

widening and deepening of harbour basin and entrance.

416,000 tons in 1968 to about 2.6 miflion tons in
1976.

Sugar, cement, logs and timber, marbie, gravel
and stone, and fruits are some of the major items
which are exported from the port of Hualien.

Technical Assistance

tn November 1968, the Bank agreed to provide
technical assistance to the Republic of China for a
feasibility study of the North-South Freeway and a
detailed engineering design for its Erhchung-Chungli
section.

The consultants appointed by the Government
commenced work in March 1969 and their feasibility teport was submitted in November. After a
review of the feasibility study, a detailed engineer
ing design for the section between Erhchung and
Chungli was authorized,INDONESIA

Loans

TADJUM IRRIGATION PROJECT
$990,000 for 24-1/2 years {including 7-year grace
period)
at 3% (Special Funds)
Approved 17 June 1968
Borrower: REPUBLIC OF INDONESIA

The Bank is financing the foreign exchange cost
of the Tadjum irrigation Project in Central Java.
The approval of this loan on 17 June marked the
beginning of Bank fending from Special Funds resources,

The Project involves the irrigation of 3,600
hectares of rice land, which is expected to result in
an increase in production of 16,000 tons of milled
rice per year.

The total cost of the Project is estimated at $3.5
mitlion, of which $990,000 represents the foreign
exchange component and will be financed by the
Bank. The financing for the jocal cost component
will be made available by the Government,

eS $ 3
intake from the Tadjuim river under construction in
Centrai Java, A concessional ioan from the Bank will help
the Government of Indonesia to complete the Tadjum
irrigation Project and enable farmers to plant twe rice
crops, instead of one, a pear.

20

   

Work on the Tadjum Scheme was suspended in
mid-1969 because'of foreign exchange shortage. The
Bank’s loan has enabled the Government of indonesia to go ahead with the projéct in pursuance of
its high-priority plans for irrigation rehabilitation
and development as a means to the alleviation of
food production problems, particularly in Java.

For the effective and efficient use of the irrigation facilities, the Bank proposed a comprehensive
pilot scheme to provide training and demonstration
in water management, in advanced year-round farming techniques and in the proper application of
various agricuttural inputs, Japan has offered to provide technical assistance to facilitate organization of
such a pilot scheme in the Project area.

SAWIT SEBARANG OIL PALM ESTATE PROJECT
$2,400,000 for 24-1/2 years {including 7-year grace
period)

at 3% (Special Funds)
Approved 21 October 1969
Borrower; REPUBLIC OF INDONESIA

The Bank is to finance the foreign exchange cost
of the rehabilitation and expansion of the Government-owned Sawit Sebarang Oi! Palm Estate in
North Sumatra, and its processing mill and related
facilities,

The Estate consists of 6,386 hectares of retarded
mature oi} palm trees and 2,675 hectares of immature trees. New plantings of 2,441 hectares are
Planned. Production of fresh fruit bunches is expected to increase from 62,500 tons in 1969 to
122,000 tons in 1972 and 196,000 tons in 1979.
The mili will be rehabilitated and expanded to
increase its processing capacity.

The total cost of the Project is estimated at $5.10
million. The Bank's loan of $2.40 million will
finance, in addition to the mill expansion and
rehabilitation, the procurement of automotive, railroad and earthmoving equipment and the cost of
hiring an accounting-financial advisor to advise and
assist Estate management for two years. The local
currency cost of $2.70 million wif be financed by
the Government partly from funds expected to be
generated by the Project.

The Project wil! contribute both to increased
Government revenues and higher foreign exchange
earnings through the export of palm oil and palm
kernels.Technical Assistance

 
 
   
 
   
  
 
   
  
  

shnical assistance will be provided in connecith “the loan for the rehabilitation and expanthe:Sawit Sebarang Oil Palm Estate. A grant
690 \was approved to finance visits to the
ft ‘highly qualified experts in the fields of oi!
gronomy, palm oil milt operation and related
f cal. aspects over a three-year period to
he -management of the Estate on modern
ment .practices and technological develop
7 March, the Bank approved a request for
al.assistance by the Government of Indonesia
comprehensive feasibility study of the Sempor
‘Iga ion Project and, if justified, for the formulaDare “preparation of a Project for consideration
’ ank for possible financing. The technica?
nee program is estimated to cost $328,000.

i Sempor Project, which has a high priority in
untry’s. current Five Year Development Plan

    
  
    
    
    
   
  
   
 
 
    
    

a cthe.densely-populated South Kedu region in
‘al Java through the provision of year-round
ation to’about 16,000 hectares of paddy land,
Detailed. planning and preparatory engineering
for -the.construction of a water reservoir and
near “the village of Sempor started late in the
's. After, the collapse of the new!ly-completed
et dati duting a heavy flood in November 1967,
sistance of the Bank was sought in making a
ed ‘study of the technical and economic soundof .the existing plan with a view to developing,
essary, an alternative plan for effective water
source ‘devélopment and efficient irrigation in the
t area,

 

 

4-member technical assistance mission comiced ‘its field work in May 1969. After investigaf @ number of possible alternatives, a revised
ect plan was formulated, complete with al!
essary preliminary designs and cost estimates,
“Basically, the new plan cails for the construction
® concrete dam with a reduced height at Sempor
‘to be supplemented by a diversion dam at’a suitable
ite“on' the’ Lukulo River towards the east. This
‘Scheme would secure afl-weather’ irrigation for
6,200 hectares in the area at a unit cost considerably lower than under the original plan. Examination by the Government of the final report of the

* Consultants and the Bank was proceeding at year=a end,

      
  
   
  
  

 

In July 1968 a program of technica! assistance
was approved by the Bank to assist the Government
of Indonesia in its agricultural development planning
and food production Program. The Bank’s three
man mission commenced work in October 1968 for
an 18-month period,

During 1969, the mission was fully engaged ina
number of major activities in collaboration with the
various agencies concerned with the program. Assistance was given in the implementation of the first
year agricultural plan; in programming for the
second year plan which is to commence in April
1970; in the training of personne! for plan implementation; and in the coordination of foreign financial aid and technical assistance.

Two of the mission experts actively participated
in field implementation of the Indonesian rice production drive, being concerned particularly with
improving fertilizer use, cultivation practices and
water management techniques at the farm level.
Assistance was also rendered by conducting in-service training, field investigation and demonstration
in these important areas,

  

Survey work in progress for the feasibility study on
Sempor Dam reconstruction.22

KOREA

Loans

COLD STORAGE PROJECT
$7,000,000 for 15-1/2 years (including 4-year grace
period}
at 6-7/8%
Approved 13 March 1969
Borrower: KOREA COLD STORAGE COMPANY,
LTD.
Guarantor: REPUBLIC OF KOREA

The Bank’s loan will finance the foreign exchange cost of providing freezing, cold storage, ice
making and ice storage, and supplementary processing facilities in Seout, Pusan, Mokpo, and
Mukhe and marketing facilities in Seoul together
with appropriate transportation equipment, for the
Korea Cold Storage Company, Ltd. (KCSC),-a subsidiary of the Government-owned Agriculture and
Fishery Development Corporation {AFDC}.

The total cost of the Project is estimated at
$15.30 million. The local currency cost of $8.30 million equivatent will be met by AFDC in the form of
share capital and long-term credit to KCSC.

AFDC was established by the Government of the
Republic of Korea in 1967 as a statutory corporation charged with the primary function of developing and promoting industries for the storing and
processing of agricultural, forestry, livestock and
fishery products, In July 1968, AFDC set up KCSC
as a subsidiary to undertake the function of increasing productivity and providing adequate distribution
facilities for the fisheries industry. Efforts so far
made to expand the fisheries industry have been
substantial, but the full benefits of the past expansion have not been realized mainly due to deficiencies in the marketing and distribution channels. The
Project seeks to eliminate these bottlenecks through
the establishment of the proposed freezing and cold
storage facilities and an adequate and efficient
marketing-system in Seoul,

This Project was the first instance in which a
technical assistance program undertaken by the
Bank ted directly to a specific financing activity.
{See page 23 for description of technical assistance
project.)

Korea Express Company trick terminal and repair shop
in Pusan, A Bank toa will help the company to import
large, fiigh-specd vehicles and heavy-duty stevedoring
equipment.

 

TRANSPORTATION AND STEVEDORING PROJECT
$7,500,000 for 10-1/2 years (including 2-year grace
period}

at 6-7/8%
Approved 4 September 1969
Borrower: KOREA EXPRESS COMPANY, LTD.
Guarantor: REPUBLIC OF KOREA ,

The Project basically involves the importation of
transportation and stevedoring equipment designed
to assist the Korea Express Company, Ltd. (KEC) in
augmenting and modernizing its fleet: supporting
truck terminals and maintenance and repair workshops wiil also be established.

KEC is presently the largest integrated transport
and stevedoring service enterprise in the Republic of
Korea.

The total cost of the Project is estimated at
$11.70 million, and the Bank’s loan of $7.50 million wiit finance the foreign exchange requirement.
The loca! currency cost of $4.20 million equivalent
will be financed by KEC from its own resources.

The country’s rapid economic growth has been
accompanied by a substantial increase in the demand for freight transportation, Strengthening of
the transportation sector ranks high in the Government’s development program. Accordingly, a crash
program has been launched for the construction of
expressways throughout the country.“KEC plans to establish an integrated highway
eight transportation and stevedoring service along
2 newly-completed Seoul-inchon Expressway and
‘the “Seoul-Pusan Expressway which is scheduled for
completion in the latter half of 1970.

MEDIUM INDUSTRY BANK PROJECT
$10,000,000 for 15 years {including 3-year grace
©" perjod)

interest at the lending rate prevailing at the time of
crediting the Joan account

‘Approved 16 December 1969

orrower: MEDIUM INDUSTRY BANK
Guarantor: REPUBLIC OF KOREA

The Bank’s toan will augment the Medium Industry Bank’s (MIB) foreign currency resources for the
extension of credit to medium-scale and small-scale
industries with a view to helping them cover the
foreign exchange cost of their development projects.

M18 was incorporated under the Medium !ndustry Bank Act in July 1961. The Bank’s loan is the
first received by MIB from a multi-lateral finance
Institution,

The small and medium industry sector plays a
very important role in the Korean economy. It
accounts for 98 per cent of the total number of
enterprises in the manufacturing, mining and transportation industries, 61 per cent of total employees
énd 47 per cent of the output and 41 per cent of

 
   
    
   
   
   
 
 
  

Seoul headquarters o

which has received a Bank loan to assist small and medium
industries in the Republic Of Korea.

the exports of these industries. The annual rate of
growth of this sector has generally exceeded increases in Gross Nationa} Product.

Among the comprehensive measures planned by
the Government for the development of the smati
and medium industry sector, adequate financiat
support ranks high in importance. For the period
1969-1971, the estimated requirement of this sector
for development is $110 million in foreign exchange, i. e., around $37 million a year. In this
context, the Bank’s loan is expected to make a substantial impact on the growth of the sector,

Technical Assistance

Technical assistance to the Agriculture and
Fishery Development Corporation {AFDC) approved
in February 1968 was completed in April 1969.

A technical assistance mission was formed to
render advice and assistance regarding the institutional framework and organization of AFDC and to
assist in identifying and formulating projects which
could be developed to appraisal standards in the
fields of fish marketing with particular refererice to
refrigeration; livestock development inctuding the
development of marketing facilities; vegetable production and marketing; and other projects which
might hold out prospects for immediate development in agriculture and fisheries,

Mission members were also asked to assist AFDC
in the preparation of appropriate proposals for consideration by the Bank for financing of specific projects in the field of agricultural and fisheries development.

As a sequel to this technical assistance, a proposal for a cold storage project was developed and
approved for financing by the Bank.

LAOS
Technical Assistance
Technical! assistance to Laos in the preparation of

a program for the integrated development of agriculture in the Vientiane Plain was approved in October

Be

Ff the ‘Medium Industry Bank

231968. Field work commenced in January 1969 and
the draft report of the consultants was submitted to
the Royal Government of Laos and to the Bank in
November. The report indicates, inter alfa, eight
project areas ranked by priority for irrigation and
agricultural development and their estimated costs.
Appropriate recommendations are presented for
alleviating the various administrative, technical,
social and economic constraints which might
hamper development efforts in these projects. The
report also covers a development program for agroindustry and establishment of an agricultural credit
organization. Overail, it provides guidelines to the
Government in pursuing its plan for effective utilization of the potential benefits from the Nam Ngum
Dam Project.

MALAYSIA

Loans

BUKIT MENDI AND BUKIT GOH PALM OIL
MILLS PROJECT
$2,800,000 for 20 years {including 5-year grace
period}

at 6-7/8%
Approved 11 February 1969
Borrower: MALAYSIA

The Bank’s toan will meet the foreign exchange
requirement of the first two stages of construction
of two palm oil mifls of the Federal Land Development Authority (FLDA) in the State of Pahang,
West Malaysia.

Oil palm production has received considerable
impetus in recent years in Malaysia in the wake of
efforts to diversify the economy. The progress
achieved in oil palm planting has been so significant
that foreign exchange earnings from palm off and
kernels have reached a level next only to rubber, tin
and timber. The Government’s programs in the field
of off paim development have been carried out
mainly through FLDA, a statutory body set up in
1956 for land development and settlement.

The proposed two mills will serve two groups of
the FLDA land development schemes, i. e., Bukit
Mendi and Bukit Goh, comprising about 19,330
acres and 20,110 acres, respectively. These areas are

Patm tree nurseries in Bukit Mendi plantation avea. The
Bank is financing the first two stages of two paim oil mills
to be set up in the Bukit Mendi and Bukit Goh areas in
the State of Pahang.

to be cleared and planted with oil palm progressively during 1968-71. The construction work of
the mills will be phased in four stages in order to
keep pace with the growth in the production of
fruits, * ‘

The total cost of the first two stages of the two
mills is estimated at about $3.40 million. The foreign exchange component, amounting to about 70
per cent of the total cost, will be financed by the
Bank's loan of $2.80 million. The local currency
cost will be met by FLDA by means of financiat
support from the Federal Government.

KUCHING PORT EXPANSION PROJECT
$5,000,000 for 25 years (including 5-year grace
period)

at 6-7/8%
Approved 313 November 1969
Borrower; MALAYSIA

The Bank’s loan is to finance the foreign exchange cost of the expansion of Kuching Port in
Sarawak.

Kuching Port plays an important role in the economic development of Sarawak by serving the city
of Kuching, the political and economic center of
the State, and its hinterland which together account
for over half the population of Sarawak, Excluding
petroleum products, Kuching Port handles more thanone of the diesel power generation plants at Sarawak
Electricity Supply Corporation which is undertaking @
gevelopment program with Bank assistance.

one-half of the import cargo discharged at Sarawak
ports and its share in most of the export items is
also significant. The rapid increase in traffic through
Kuching, arising mainly from economic development
and population growth, has resulted in a critical
congestion of the existing port facilities. Against
this background, it has been considered essential to
expand the existing port of Kuching.

The port expansion to be financed by the ioan
involves the construction of an 800-foot wharf with
necessary supporting installations at a new site,
Pending Point, which is six: miles down river from
the existing port. The loan will also finance the procurement of tugboats and cargo handling equipment. ‘

The total cost of the project is estimated at
$7.26 million, of which $5 million represents the
foreign exchange component to be financed by the
Bank. The Federal! Government will make available
the proceeds of the loan to the Kuching Port
Authority. (KPA) through the State Government of
Sarawak. The local cost incuxred will be borne
partly by the State Government and partly by KPA.

SARAWAK ELECTRICITY SUPPLY PROJECT
$3,100,000 for 20 years {including 5-year grace
period)

at 6-7/8%
Approved 18 December 1969
Borrower: MALAYSIA

 

The purpose of the Bank‘s foan is to finance the
foreign exchange component of a part of the fiveyear development program of the Sarawak Electricity Supply Corporation (SESCO}.

SESCO is a statutory body established in 1963
and is the major supplier of electricity for the
whole State of Sarawak.

SESCO’s development program in the next five
years {1970-1974} amounts to $12.40 million. The
Bank's foan will cover the foreign exchange cost of
the major part of this program including, jnter alia,

Kuching Port,whichareto be expanded with the help of a Bank loan.

 

25the purchase of farger new generating units and the
construction of a 33 KV transmission system.

The Federal Government will relend the proceeds
of the loan to SESCO through the State Government of Sarawak. The remaining part of the program and the local cost of the project will be met
mainly by SESCO from its own resources.

Technical Assistance

On 23 September 1969, the Bank approved the
request of the Government of Maiaysia for technical
assistance in conducting a marketing study of oif
palm products. The technical asqistance grant totals
$80,000. The study will review the oi! palm products marketing arrangements of the Federal Land
Development Authority {FLDA). The suitability of
the present marketing arrangements of FLDA in
meeting future needs will form part of the study
together with the preparation of proposals for
improving the Authority’s marketing organization.
Recommendations have also been sought on storage
and shipping of oif palm products.

FLDA initiated its first oii palm scheme in 1961.
Up to the end of 1988, it had fostered 22 schemes,
involving 93,850 acres or one-fourth of the total
area planted. FLDA plans to expand its paim oil
production so that, by 7975, it will produce 343,000
tons or about 26 per cent of the country’s total
production estimated at 1.3 million tons.

 

 

 

Oi! paim cultivation forms a vital ‘part of the
Malaysian Government's program of crop diversification, Production of palm oii and kernels has grown
at average annual rates of 17 per cent and 15 per
cent, respectively, over the last eight years, while
exports have also increased markediy.

A request from the Government of Malaysia for
technical assistance in conducting a feasibility study
for the improvement of a section of the Highway
between {Cuala Lumpur and iCarak (Federal Route
Il} was approved on 13 November. The estimated
cost of the study is $192,000,

Road transport services in Malaysia have expanded steadily in recent years, necessitating a high
jevel of investment. Federal Route I} is the only
trunk road connecting Port Swettenham on the west
coast with the comparatively less developed eastern
region of the Malay peninsula, and with growing
traffic the need for improvement of the route has
become evident. (n particular, the 5i-mile section
between Kuala Lumpur and Karak, which traverses
difficult mountainous areas and is characterized by
many sharp curves and steep grades, needs substantial improvement. .

The Project was recommended, among other
priority projects, by the Malaysia Transport Survey
carried out in 1967-1968 under the sponsorship of
the United Nations Development Programme and
the World Bank.

The feasibility study under this technical assistance project will be carried out by a team of engineering experts and economists who will estimate
the future traffic growth, determine the nature of
improvements needed and select the final alignment
for the road from among severa) alternatives. The
study, expected to start early in 1970, wifl cover a
period of about 10 months. A construction loan
for the highway may then be sought from the Bank.

NEPAL
Loan

AtR TRANSPORT DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
$6,010,000 for 30 years {including 7-year grace
period)

at 2% (Special Funds)
Approved 18 December 1969
Borrower: KINGDOM OF NEPAL

 

A Bank technical assistance mission will undertake a
feasibility study for improvement of the Kuala Lumpur
Karak section of the Federal Highway Route IH, Vehicles
passing through the mountainous section ofthe highway
have 10 negotiate many sharp curves.‘Bank -is to finance the foreign exchange cost
rogram. for the improvement of air transport
a which has been accorded high priority by
ernment as a short-term measure in trans
 

epi

development. ; .
pal, ‘a fand locked country with a mountainous

rain, ‘has ‘nearly 70 per cent of its population of
ition: ‘living in the hills. Transport and comcation facilities in Nepal are relatively undeveld; consequently, communities are isolated and
mic, social and administrative integration is
mited.. The past decade has witnessed some
evement in the field of read construction in
but ‘progress has been slow because of the
involved in road construction work in

‘order).to bridge the gap in communication
ities; the Government has accorded priority to
evelopment of air transport. Substantia! investchas ‘been made in the past in the development
ports: and the establishment of the Royal
Airlines. However, the existing airports, naviGation aids’ and communication facilities require
iderable improvement and modernization to
t the:growing international and domestic passenaffic: ‘To provide for faster and more economiForaft ‘Operations, the Government is procuring
HS-748. aircraft which are expected to comOperation early in 1970. In addition, two
hort-take-off-and-landing type aircraft will be
ed inthe near future.
é Project to be financed by the Bank provides
he improvement of five existing airports,
ding the international airport at Kathmandu,
lernization of navigation aids and communicaIn. facilities and improvements to the workshop,
ground. transport and pilot training facilities of the
fal Nepal Airlines.
hen completed, the Project will facilitate better
tization of existing air transport facilities;
improve air transport capacity and alleviate conStraints on domestic and foreign passenger traffic;
nd promote social and administrative integration.
4n addition, the Project wil! contribute to accelerated growth of the areas where 3.5 million inhabWants are concentrated. It will also facilitate the

 

income, foreign exchange earning capacity and
employment in tourist-related industries.

The Bank’s loan of $6.01 million from Special!
Funds resources, together with a technical assistance

 

development of tourism, thus generating additional 
grant of $350,000 (see below), will cover the foreign exchange component in the total cost of
$13.31 million.

Technical Assistance

To secure the maximum. benefit from the development of the Air Transport Development Project,
the Government of Nepal requested the Bank to
provide a technical assistance grant of $350,000 in
addition to the loan of $6.01 million sought from
the Bank. The technical assistance grant was
approved with the fean on 18 December.

Of crucial importance for the success of air transport development .in Nepal is the efficient management of two organizations, the Department of Civil
Aviation (DCA) and the Royal Nepal Airlines Corporation (RNAC}. These two organizations ‘have
functioned satisfactorily in the past. However,
improvements in organization and in management
are needed in order to achieve an accelerated rate of
growth In air transport.

The technical assistance from the Bank is to
assist in the implementation of the proposed reorganization and management reform of these institutions. A team of five experts will serve as advisers in
key areas of civil aviation and airline functions for a

period of two years. A senior management adviser .

One of the experts (extreme right} deputed by the Bank
as part-of a technical assistance program discusses organizattonal problems with senior officiais of the Agricultural Development Bank of Nepai.

 

27will coordinate the activities of the team and will be
responsible to the Secretary of Public Works, Transport and Communications who will ensure implementation of the proposals of the advisory team. In
addition, the advisors, will assist in the training of
local staff in the two institutions,

Under the technical assistance grant approved by
the Bank in November 1968, a team of experts was
organized by the International Civil Aviation Organization and a study of the development needs of the
air transport system in Nepal was completed in June
1969,

The report recommended several policy considerations and programs for the expansion of air services, including augmentation of the air fleet of the
Royal Nepal! Airlines Corporation, the development
of several airports in Nepal and of navigational aids,
and the provision of advisory services,

On, the basis of this study, the Government requested the Bank to appraise an air transport development project for possible financing. This resulted

in the loan and technical assistance approved on 18
December.

A technical assistance grant of $69,000 to the
Agricultural Development Bank of Nepal {ADBN)}
was approved on 22 May. The technical assistance
will be provided by sending a team of three experts—one each in the field of loan operations, agricultural credit and accounting—who will be concetned with formulation of policies and developmental schemes; improvement of the organizational
structure; streamlining of lending operations; and
organization of training and orientation courses for
Bank staff at different levels of operation.

The experts in accounting and in agricultural
credit started their assignments in September 1969,
for periods of six months and 12 months, respectively. The expert in loan operations commenced his
12-month field work in November.

The request for experts followed the technical
assistance provided by the Bank late in 1968, fora
study of the organization and operation of ADBN,

 

A Bank mission studying existing facilities at Kathmandu international airport, one
of the five airports in Nepal which will be improved with Bank assistance on concessional terms,

 

 

PHLoans

“PRIVATE DEVELOPMENT CORPORATION OF
THE. PHILIPPINES PROJECT

$5,000,000 for 12 years {inctuding 2-year grace

period)

interest at the lending rate prevailing at the time of
* crediting the loan account

Approved 4 March 1969

Borrower: PHILIPPINE NATIONAL BANK
Guarantor: REPUBLIC OF THE PHILIPPINES

‘The Bank’s loan was extended to the Philippine
ationa! Bank (PNB) for relending to the Private
Development Corporation of the Philippines (PDCP}
ch is to utilize the proceeds to finance private
dustrial and other productive enterprises. PDCP
as established in 1963 for the purpose of assisting
the creation, expansion and modernization of
ate productive enterprises in the Philippines by
tending mediusn-term and long-term loans, underFiting securities, guaranteeing loans and providing
anagerial and technical assistance.

(1) Facilites for producing industrial oxygen under
construction by Ingasco Inc. (2) Loading facilities for the
magnetite mining plant of Filmag Inc. and {3} timber and
logging plant of Aras-Asan Timber Co. The three enterprises are beneficiaries of sub-loans from the Private Development Corporation of the Philippines which has received
financial assistance from the Bank.PDCP has an authorized and paid-up capital of
Pesos 25 million; in addition, it has raised a substantial amount of funds from bi-lateral and multi-latera!
aid agencies,

As of 31 December, seven sub-loans aggregating
$1.35 mitlion had been approved and $250,000 disbursed by PDCP, The approved sub-loans include
financing for the expansion of ceramic tiles production, timber and Jogging plant, production of industrial oxygen, mining magnetite sand for export, electric power distribution, coconut products and livestock and dairy products. Most of the projects have
been registered by the Government as preferred or
pioneer projects.

COTABATO IRRIGATION PROJECT
$2,600,000 for 25 years {including 5-year grace
period)
at 3% (Special Funds)
Approved 18 November 1969
Borrower; REPUBLIC OF THE PHILIPPINES

The Bank is financing the foreign exchange cost

of the Cotabato Irrigation Project. The total cost of _

the Project is estimated at $4.60 million of which
the foreign exchange component is $2.50 million.
The loca! currency cost equivalent to $2.10 million
will be met by the Government.

The Project comprises three irrigation systems,
namely, Banga and Marbe! in South Cotabato Province and M’lang in Cotabato Province. In the
Marbe! system, a small hydro-power plant with a
capacity of 740 KW wili be installed. The area
covered under these systems will be 7,430 hectares.
The Project is aimed at increasing the production of
paddy from the present level of 7,600 tons to
43,400 tons in five years after its completion.

fn order te achieve the targeted increase of production of paddy and corn, pilot demonstration
farms will be established by the Government in the
project areas to introduce improved farming practices including double-cropping patterns together
with application of agricultural inputs and scientific
water management. The Project is expected to be
completed by December 1971.

Technical Assistance

In June 7968, the Bank approved the granting of
technical assistance for one year to the Governrnent
of the Philippines, for the improvement of irrigation
water management. In view of the satisfactory progress made by the scheme, and of the need for continued assistance to ensure the ultimate success of

 

the five-year program, the Bank agreed in June
1969 to the request of the Government to extend
the technical assistance to the National irrigation
Administration (NIA) for a further and final period
of one year, ending in August 1970.

In the first year, construction of termina! networks (irrigation and drainage ditches,. gates and
water measuring structures and check gates} resulted
in coordination of the water distribution system in
the eight selected pilot areas. Two in-service training
courses were conducted in January and June 1969
for about 50 engineers from the 32 NIA irrigation
systems. The courses were conducted by a team of
three Bank experts assisted by two NIA technical
officers.

For the second year, in addition to continuing
the domestic training course to cover alf the 85
NIA systems, four NIA technical officers will visit
the Republic of China and Japan in order to gain
first-hand technical and practical experience in the
field of water management. :

The emphasis in the second year's operations will
be on system-wide operations, including water control at the headworks of the latérals and main
canals of the multi-purpose Angat Dam. The three
Bank experts will visit al! eight selected projects to
advise on improvements to the water contro! systems and their operations,

Technical assistance to the Philippine Government for the formulation of a project for a Fish:
eries Port in Manila Bay was approved in July 1968.
Consultants engaged for the work submitted a preliminary site investigation report and layout pian at
the end of February 1969, Thereafter, detailed surveys and investigations were undertaken and the
final design and contract documents were compieted
and submitted to the Bank in September. An application for a loan was under consideration at the end
of the year.

SINGAPORE
Loan

DEVELOPMENT BANK OF SINGAPORE
PROJECT

$10,000,000 for 14 years {including 2-year grace
period} ~

Interest at the lending rate prevailing at the time of
crediting the loan account

Approved 26 June 1869

Borrower: DEVELOPMENT BANK OF SINGAPORE

Guarantor: REPUBLIC OF SINGAPOREds of the Bank's loan will be used by
Bank of Singapore (DBS) to promanufacturing and service indus
“he ‘proce:
‘Development
ie financing for

me an institution in which the Government of

apore has 4 49 per cent shareholding, is the
industrial development bank in Singapore. It
35 incorporated in July 1968 with an authorized
ee capital of SS200 million, one-half of which
“rx issued and paid-up.

Before DBS was established, the only instituonal. source of medium-term and long-term indusai finance was the Economic Development Board.
iia loan portfolio of the Board was taken over by
HBS under an arrangement whereby the Govern
   
 
 
   
 
 
   
    
 
  

   

Activities at {7} National Iron and Steel Milt Ltd. {2)
Chemical Industries Far East (3; Universal Electronics Cor
Poration Ltd, and (4) Jurong Shipyard repair dock, some
Of the enterprises now being assisted by the Development

Bank of Singapore which has received a Bank loan.

 

ment would extend to DBS a loan ecuivalent to the
outstanding balance of the Board’s Loans.

DBS provides financial assistance to manufacturing and service industries in the form of term loans,
equity. participation and guarantees. it is also authorized to engage in commercial banking and other
subsidiary activities.

DBS expects to expand its operations rapidly and
for the period 1970-1973 it has projected an annual
growth of over 9 per cent for its loans and equity
investments.

As of 31 December, DBS had presented three
sub-loans amounting to $1.20 miilion for the Bank’s
consideration.THAILAND

Loan

INDUSTRIAL FINANCE CORPORATION OF
THAILAND PROJECT

$10,000,000 for 12 years {including 2-year grace
period)

Interest at the lending rate prevailing at the time of
crediting the loan account

Approved 16 December 1969

Borrower: INDUSTRIAL FINANCE CORPORA.
TION OF THAILAND ,

Guarantor: GOVERNMENT OF THAILAND

The proceeds of the Bank’s loan—the second extended by the Bank to the Industrial Finance Corporation of Thailand (IFCT)—will be relent to
smali-scale and medium-scale industrial enterprises.
The loan will further augment IFCT’s foreign exchange resources and will be available for utilization
unti! 31 December 1972,

The rate of economic growth in Thailand has
been impressive in recent years and the scope of

industrial development is being enlarged. Industry,
which is almost wholly in private hands, is expected
to expand by an annuaj rate of 11 per cent over the
period 1969-1971. 5

Apart from the Government Smail Loans Board,
IFCT has so far been the only institution in Thailand which provides medium-term and long-term
foans for private investments. During 1969, two
investment banks, however, started operations in
Thailand and they will also take up, to some extent,
medium-term lending activities. Late in 1969, a
development finance corporation was established
which will operate in the medium-term and longterm markets.

Although increasing competition is thus foreseen
for the IFCT, the rising demand for medium-term
and fong-term loans is expected to provide ample
opportunities for {FCT to expand its operations.

The Bank’s first toan to IFCT amounting to $5
million was approved in January 1968. By the end
of the year, 17 sub-loans, totalling $3.87 million,
had been approved and a sum of $3.40 million disbursed by the Bank. The sub-joans will finance,
among other things, electrical appliance plants,
porcelain tableware factories, printing and paper
plants, cotton mills and kaolin processing plants.

be io
y aq

Production in progress ‘at Stramit Board Co. Lid. and
S.P. Ceramic Co, Ltd, two among the several industrial
enterprises that are being supported by the Industrial
Finance Corporation of Thailand with Bank assistance.Technical Assistance ductive activities in each of the selected districts;

prepare integrated development programs for the
ie Bank approved on 23 September a request districts involved; and assist the ARD Office and the
Government of Thailand for technical assist- Government Departments concerned in the initial

6 ‘the Office of Accelerated Rural Develop- stages of program implementation.
it (ARD); involving & grant of $105,000. In accordance with an agreement entered into
ne WARD Office was set up in 1966 to develop with the Government, the inter-disciplinary team
to coordinate the implementation of action will commence its work in January 1970 for a totai
or-rural development in specially-designated period of nine months.
‘provinces. which now total 24, mostly in the Technical assistance was approved by the Bank
stand “north of Thailand. Having made con- on 9 October for agricuitural development pro
le .progress in basic infrastructural develop- gramming in the Nong Wai Pioneer irrigated Agricul
at these provinces in the iast few years, the ture Project in northeast Thailand, at an estimated

jjarnment sought Bank assistance in planning con- cost of $180,000.

matrated economic development in the areas. The Project area, covering 12,500 hectares near
he’ Bank: will provide five experts—an agricul- Khon Kaen, is closely representative of northeast

 

development expert with soil-crop background, Thailand in its environmental and Jand conditions
zketing expert, a water management expert, a and in the present condition of its agriculture which
organization expert, and an irrigation and
‘mechanization expert— to join seven Thai
alists in an inter-disciplinary team specialty
zed:for the Project. The team will select eight
high-potential districts in as many ARD pro‘oO be the nucleus areas of concentrated ecoevelopment; undertake an intensive on-the
 
 
 
    
 
 
     
  

 
 

 
 

  
  
   
     

ale Bank is extending technical assistance tv the Government of Thailand in
te and implementing a development program in the northeast and north of
nate The technical assistance is to be channeled through the Office uf Acceteleaner, tural Development {ARD). ARD projects include a 28 kilometer road under
Give ction ro link Ban Muang Kai village with the highway: insecticide spraying: and

rick plant in Saket Nakorn province,borders, technologically and economically, on the
subsistence level with an overwhelming emphasis on
rain-fed rice monoculture,

Because of its convenient location, adjacent to
the regiona! political and communication center,
this area has been selected for a pioneer irrigation
project for accelerating irrigation development and
agricultural growth in a region which is generally
retarded: economically.

Most of the major irrigation works for the Project area have been constructed and the distributory
system is expected to be completed early in 1970.
However, effective water control and management is
impossible without further improvement of the
drainage system and the addition of proper terminal
facilities. Among other essential activities to be
included in an integrated development program are
intensive crop production, pasture development,
adequate rural credit and marketing arrangements,
appropriate farmers’ organizations and research and
extension services, and phased development of
selected agriculturally-related industries.

A nine-member programming mission provided
by the Bank will commence work early in 1970 and
the integrated program is scheduled to be ready
within 12 months.

VIET-NAM

Technical Assistance.

In July 1968, the Bank agreed to provide technical assistance to development financing institutions in Viet-Nam. The first part of the program
provided for a team of four experts to study and
report on the Government institutional framework
and the procedures for handling investment projects;
the work of three financing institutions—the Indus.
trial Development Center {IDC), the Société Financlére pour le Développement de I’Industrie au ViétNam {SOFIDIV), and the Refinancing Fund for
Industrial Development (RFID) of the National
Bank of Viet-Nam; the division of responsibitities
among the financial institutions; and the possibility
of advising the Agricultural Development Bank on
the establishment of a system of rural banking. The
other part of the program covered the provision of

 

three senior operational advisors, one each to be
assigned to IDC, SOFIDIV and RFID,

During 1969, a team of three experts studied the
Government institutional framework and the working of IDC, SOFIDIV and RFID, Under the second
part of the technical assistance program, an advisor

was assigned to SOFIDIV for about a year with.

effect from May 1968. The selection of a second
advisor for IDC for an assignment of one year from
January 1970 was made late in the year.

WESTERN SAMOA

Loan

FALEOLO AIRPORT AND ROAD PROJECT
$2,400,000 for 30 years (including 10-year grace
period}

at 1-1/2% {Special Funds)
Approved 16 December 1969
Borrower: INDEPENDENT STATE OF WESTERN
SAMOA

The Bank’s loan is designed to assist Western
Samoa in upgrading Faleolo Airport to suit shorthaul jet aircraft and in improving the road from the
airport to the capital city of Apia.

Western Samoa is remote from the main industrial and commercial centers of the world, and the
development of effective air connections is, therefore, of considerable importance.

The total cost of the Project is estimated at
$3.10 million. The foreign exchange cost of the Project will be met from the Bank’s loan of $2.40 millian and the local cost will be borne by the Government,

Western Samoa is urgently in need of economic
development, especially in view of the pressure of
its fast growing population. The economy relies
heavily on three plantation crops—copra, cocoa and
banana. A promising source of foreign exchange
earnings is tourism for the development of which
the country has a significant potential. The completion of the Airport/Road Project will be an important
step in promoting tourism in Western Samoa.Technical Assistance

 
 
  
 
 
  
 
  
 
  
 
  
 
 
  

The loan described above arose from technical
assistance approved by the Bank in February 1969
at a cost of $50,000 for the preparation of the
Faleoio Airport and Road Project. The Project
appeared to be potentially suitable for Bank financing but there was a need for further technical
investigation and tests to obtain essential data for
sound preparatory work.

The consultants engaged to carry out the engineering and other studies and to prepare preliminary
designs for the upgrading of the airport and the
road submitted their report in October. The report
was transmitted to the Government of Western
Samoa. After Bank appraisal of the Project, the loan
was approved in December.

35B. REGIONAL ACTIVITIES

The Bank has a positive role to play in the promotion of regional cooperation. One of the first
major activities undertaken by the Bank was an
Agricultural Survey in Asia which was completed in
1968. The results of the Survey are now being
translated into action and given practical effect
through the Bank’s lending and technical assistance
activities, As a follow-up to the Survey, and the
publication of its report, a Regional Seminar on
Agriculture was held in Sydney at the time of the
Second Annual Meeting of the Board of Governors.

At the request of certain Southeast Asian countries, a Regional Transport Survey was inaugurated
by the Bank. The Bank is being assisted in the conduct of this Survey by a Steering Committee of
experts of wide experience and competence in the
field.

A Study of the Southeast Asian Economy in the
1970's was initiated late in the year in response to a
request made in April by the Fourth Ministerial
Conference for the Economic Development of
South East Asia.

Financial support in the form of a grant was
pledged by the Bank for the Asian Vegetable Research and Development Center in the Republic of
China.

in July, a Regional Conference of Development
Banks of Asia was held under Bank sponsorship in
Manila.

The Bank attaches considerable importance, in its
technical assistance activities and in the various
missions sent to developing member countries, to
the utilization of the available expertise in the
region. Since the commencement of operations, over
half the number of consultants (including consulting
firms} engaged for Bank assignments have come
from regional countries.

Relationships with other international organizations interested in the various aspects of regional
cooperation are described in Section C of Part |.

Regional Seminar on Agriculture

As @ follow-up to the Asian Agricultural Survey
which was completed in 1968, the Bank arranged a
Regional Seminar on Agriculture in conjunction
with the Second Annual Meeting of the Board of
Governors in Sydney from 10-12 April. The aim of
the Seminar was to bring together government representatives from developing member countries for
deliberation on the policy implications of the Survey’s findings and recommendations and to discuss
with special reference to the Bank, the various ways
of making the best use of these recommendations in
action programs for accelerating agricultural development, Senioy agricultural and financial poticy
officials from each developing member country participated in the Seminar, together with representatives from developed member countries, international organizations concerned with agricuitural
development in Asia, six expert “resource persons”
who presented papers based on various aspects of
the Survey, and staff members of the Bank. The
preparation of papers on recent developments in
agriculture by each senior agricultural official also
served to up-date the Survey reports and to focus
attention on developments since the Survey was
taken.

The Conference stressed in particular the importance of the so-called “Second Generation Probiems” in agriculture arising from the technological
innovations in high yielding varieties and supplies of
physical inputs. These inciuded problems of storage,
transportation, the encouragement of agricultural
processing industries, and the discovery and exploitation of new market outlets. Other matters discussed included the need for further research and
the need to increase the availability of farm credit.

The papers and proceedings of the Regional
Seminar on Agriculture have been published by the
Bank and-copies have been widely distributed.

Regionai Transport Survey

In response to @ request of the Government of
Malaysia on behalf of certain Southeast Asian countries, the Bank undertook to conduct a Regional
Transport Survey in Indonesia, Laos, Malaysia, the
Philippines, Singapore, Thailand and the Republic of
Viet-Nam, Work on the Survey commenced in
October 7969.ivith in progress at (1) AB Biscuit
BCT Tesla Ne ts anat (3) Elite
joabtd. The three enterprises are among those
oa by the Industrial Development Bank of
joh has received @ Bank loan to help smali and
is industries in the private sector,

 

A Steering Committee of experts set up by the
Bank met in Manila in December 1968 and recommended draft terms of reference for the Survey.
Based on these recommendations, proposals were
invited from consulting firms and were evaluated in
accordance with the Bank’s procedures. The
appointment of consultants was authorised in June.

The Board of Directors decided that the Survey
should be conducted in two stages: the consultants
would initially prepare an inception report speliing
out the precise tasks involved and the depth to
which different studies were to be carried out; the
substantive work on the Survey would then be conducted in the light of the decisions taken on the
inception report.

The consultants completed the inception report
in December.. After consideration of the report by
the Steering Committee and the Board of Directors,
the Sank should be able to authorise work on the
second stage of the Survey by March 1970.

In March 1969, participating Governments, in
consultation with the Bank, asked the United
Nations Development Programme (UNDP) to make
a contribution towards the cost of the maritime
and air transport studies which are integral parts of
the Survey. The United States Government has
already made a specific offer of a grant of $1 million to the Technica} Assistance Special Fund of the
Bank for use in financing the Survey.

The Bank was informed in December 1969 that
UNDP’s Administrator had recommended to the
Governing Council to earmark a tittle over $ 1 million for the project for which the Bank is proposed
as Participating and Executing Agency.*

Study of Southeast Asian Economy
in the 1970's

The Bank was asked by the Fourth Ministerial
Conference for the Economic Development of
South East Asia, at its meeting in April 1969, to
undertake a study of the Southeast Asian Economy
in the 1970's. The purpose of the study is to give
the nine countries of the region a common body of
information and analysis on which to base future
national and regiona! economic policies and planning. In July the Board of Directors approved the
undertaking of the study by the Bank and accepted

*Confirmation received in january 1970 that the Governing
Council had aparoved the Administrator's recommendations.

37a recommended procedure for the implementation
of this study. In accordance with the approved
procedure, the Bank convened a meeting of an Expert Group™ to advise on the topics to be included
in the study, The Report of the Expert Group outlined five major areas to be included in the study:

(a) The Green Revolution;

(b} The Problems of Industrialization;

(c} Foreign Economic Relations {including an
analysis of the impact of the erid of hostilities in Viet-Nam and the British military
withdrawal from the region};

(d) Foreign Private Investment; and

{e) Population Control.

 

*Members of the Expert Group
» were as follows:

Dr. Paul Streeten Dr. Saburo Okita
Oxford University President
Oxford, England Japan Economic Research
(Chairman) Center
Tokyo, Japan

Dr. H. W. Arndt
Australian National

University
Canberra, Australia

Dr, G. Rosen
Chief Economist
Asian Development Bank

Mr. Stxto K. Roxas

President

Bancom Development
Corporation

Makati, Rizal, Philippines

Mr. H. Farrelly

Director

Operations Department
Asian Development Bank

Mr, William Gilmartin Professor Subroto

-Resident Representative Director-General

Worid Bank Research and Planning

New Delhi, india Ministry of Trade

Djakarta, Indonesia

Dr. Albert Hirschman

Harvard University Mr. W. J. R. Woodley

Cambridge, Massachusetts International Monetary
Fund

Dr. S. C. Hsieh Washington, D.C. 20473

Director U.S.A,

Projects Department

Asian Development Bank Madam Suparb Yossundara

Director, Assistant to the
Governor

Bank of Thailand

Bangkok, Thailand

The recommendations of the Expert Group were
presented by the Bank to the Advisory Committee
of the countries to be included in the study, which
has the responsibility of providing guidance to the
experts. The Advisory Committee accepted in generat
the recommendations of the Expert Group as to the
topics to be included, but suggested certain amendments in the details of the proposed study. !t is
expected that an interim report will be available for
the Ministerial Conference in April 1970.

A budget was approved by the Board of Directors, individual experts were selected for the various

’ tasks and work began in November.

Fourth Regional Conference of
Development Banks of Asia

As proposed at the Third Regional Conference of
Development Banks of Asia in Tokyo in September
1966, the Bank convened the Fourth Regional Conference in Manila from 14~—17 July.

A specific theme was selected for the Conference
in consultation with participants in previous conferences: exploration of the experience and problems encountered by development banks in respect
of the identification, formulation, evaluation and
implementation of investment projects, A number
of development banks in the region prepared case
studies relating to their operational experience in
this regard, and consultations were held with senior
officials of these banks. On the basis of the case
studies and the discussions, a theme paper was prepared by the Bank and circulated to al} participants
in advance of the Conference.

Sixty-seven representatives from 42 development
banks and institutions, both regional and nonregional, participated in the Conference. Representatives from the United Nations and the World Bank
were also among them.

A summary of the proceedings in printed form
has been issued by the Bank.

The Conference made several recommendations
for consideration and action by the Bank, These
were examined in the Bank and the Board of
Directors approved provision for the strengthening
of the staff in order to guide, assist and promote“effective functioning of the development banks
ievregion. The Board has also authorized a study
scertain the training facilities currently available
to examine the possibilities in this respect
h are most likely to be of benefit to the devel‘ent banks of the region. The Bank also has
ler examination the development of facilities for
-development bank cooperation including the
ganization of future conferences.

LAWASIA Credit and
Security Research Project

in February, the Board of Directors approved a
‘posal for cooperation with the Ford Foundation
‘assisting the Law Association for Asia and the
festern ‘Pacific {LAWASIA) in the carrying out of
first. stage of LAWASIA’s research program
[ving a study of security arrangements available
national development banks and other financial
itutions in developing member countries of the
ank for the purpose of supplying medium and long
m credits for development purposes and the
incihg of working capital. LAWASIA‘s constiuent members are professional legal associations in
untries in the ECAFE region as well as individual

 

nthe implementation of this research project,
e. Ford Foundation provides financial assistance
id ‘the Bank acts as administrator of the project by
iving..and disbursing the funds involved. The
ank will also offer such technical advice and assistce as necessary to those responsible for the reearch. The Bank will bear the administrative exenses.of participation by its staff in the project.
ince an effective legal framework for security
arrangements is an important factor in facilitating
the use of resources available to national development banks and similar institutions, the project is of
considerable interest to the Bank.

The commitment by the Ford Foundation and
the Bank is limited to the first stage of the proposed research program involving a general study of
the security arrangements in Ceylon, Indonesia,
Republic of Korea, Malaysia, the Philippines, SingaPore, Republic of China and Thailand as representing the diverse legal backgrounds of the region.
Australia and Japan are also included in the present
Study under separate financial arrangements made
by LAWASIA with other banks and commercial
Organizations,

 

Asian Vegetable Research and
Development Center

The Bank agreed in March 1969 to give financial
assistance for the establishment and operation of
the proposed Asian Vegetable Research and Development Center (AVRDC).

The decision was made in response to @ request
from the Government of the. Republic of China on
behalf of the Governments of the seven participating countries, namely, Japan, the Republic of
Korea, the Philippines, Thailand, the United States,
the Republic of Viet-Nam and the Republic of
China.

The project is a sub-regional cooperative effort to
improve the production and marketing of fresh vegetables in the developing countries of Southeast and
East Asia. AVRDC, which is proposed to be set up
in the Republic of China, will undertake research,
training and extension programs designed to develop
improved plant materials, adaptable technology and
the skifled manpower necessary to build up an efficient and profitable vegetable industry to meet the
increasing demand for a balanced diet and to provide a broader base. of agricultural production and
rural development. .

The total budget estimate for the first five years
of operation of AVRDC is $7.5 million, towards
which $3 million and $2.25 million have been
pledged by the Governments of the United States
and the Republic of China, respectively. Within the
framework of its overseas technical cooperation program, the Japanese Government plans to contribute
expert services and equipment to the Center. The
Bank’s assistance, which is subject to the condition
that adequate funds are available to meet the
estimated cost of operations in the first two years,
will amount to $150,000 in each of these two
years.

Asian Industrial Survey

-The Bank continued its discussions with the Economic Commission for Asia and the Far East on the
proposed Survey. Members of the Bank staff
assisted in the formulation of the terms of reference
for the study.

334G

Proposed Regional Association of
Tax Administrators

A proposal was made by the Philippine Government for action by the Bank to set up a regionai
association of tax administrators similar to Centro
Interamericano de Administradores Tributarios
{CIAT) in the Western Hemisphere. After comments
on the proposal had been received from member
countries, it was decided that further consideration
of the matter should be deferred to next year and
that, meanwhile, the Bank should examine in some
detail the experience of CIAT. Enquiries into the
experience of CIAT were initiated during the year.RELATIONS WITH OTHER
4{NTERNATIONAL ORGANIZATIONS

: in accordance with its Charter, the Bank, since
= establishment, has maintained close relations
th its sister institutions, the World Bank and the
er regional banks, and also with the United
ations and its various organs and specialized agenjeg, particularly the Economic Commission for Asia
md.the Far East. In many cases these relationships
e been of an informal character taking the form
*¢ visits by staff members on both sides for discusas on current matters of mutual interest and conii, Where practicable, the Bank has participated
“meetings and conferences convened by instituns whose activitiés are relevant: to the work of
; Bank. More formal Bank relationships include
‘interim Arrangement for Cooperation with the
‘ood and Agriculture Organization and an agreejent on the Collection of Debt-Servicing Data with
World Bank. :
‘Relationships with institutions with whom the.
nk has had regular contact during the past year
summarized in the following paragraphs.

ood and Agriculture Organization (FAQ)

FAO specialists have participated in various actives of the Bank, mainly in the agricultural field,
mid useful exchanges of information have taken
place with FAO personnel, both in the field and at
he Headquarters in Rome. A representative of FAO
Participated in the Regional Seminar on Agriculture
held concurrently with the Second Annual Meeting
_in Sydney in April. Qn & and 6 June, ameeting
was held in Rome between representatives of FAO,
the United Nations Development Programme, the
World Bank and the regional banks including the
Asian Development Bank where operational activities of mutual interest were examined.
Representatives of FAO and the Bank met in
November 1969 to review the working arrangements
instituted by the two organizations in 1968. it was
agreed that experience to date had been generally
Satistactory and that continuance of the coopera
tive arrangements between the two institutions on
the established basis was justified, Future review
meetings would be held: alternatively in Manila and
in Rome.

World Bank

The Bank continued its joint arrangements with:
the World Bank in studies relating to the external
-public debt position and prospects of the regional
developing member countries. The continued cooperation in exchange of information has been of considerable mutual benefit particularly in field missions. The data on external public debt were
published in brochure form in March and Septermber 1969. The World Bank plans to revise completely the collection and tabular systems on external debt data beginning 1970 and after discussion

the two institutions have agreed on the proposed set 
of revisions. An attempt will be made to include
external private debt in the new coverage. New
forms’ and procedures, which wil! permit the use of
the latest computer technology, have been developed for use in the proposed collection systems.
During the year, Bank staff visited the World
“Bank for study programs and observation tours. In
addition, there have been frequent exchanges of
_ visits by officials for consultations on specific opera
tional activities. The Annual Meetings of the two”

Banks have aiso provided opportunities to strengthen the relationship between the organizations.

United Nations Development Programme
{UNDP}

in February 1969, UNDP held a regional meeting
of its resident representatives in Asia and the Far
‘East in Manila. During this meeting, procedures
were worked out for the promotion of mutual contacts: between UNDP and the Bank in order that
both organizations could be kept informed of their
respective activities in the Asian region thereby providing the opportunity, on a working basis, for the
development of any interest one organization might
have in the other’s activities.

ai

i

 

 

 

i
'
j
i
iEconomic Commission for Asia
and the Far East {(ECAFE)

The Bank is appreciative of the cooperation and
assistance received from ECAFE and looks forward
to continued close and profitable association in the
future. Participants or observers continue to be sent
by the Bank to the meetings of the Commission and
of its subsidiary bodies, Such formal contacts,
together with the useful relationships of a less
formal nature built up at the working level, have
been helpful in ensuring that the work of the two
organizations in fostering the economic progress of
the region proceeds on a complementary basis.

The Bank has expressed its willingness to contribute financially to the proposed Asian Industrial
Survey, subject to’ the ‘adoption of terms of reference satisfactory to the Bank and provided that the
remaining funds required are assured. The Bank has
been kept informed of the studies made by the
Commission of financial arrangements within the
region that may help to promote inter-regional trade
and discussions have taken place from time to time
between the two organizations on the possible role
that the Bank might have in any such arrangements.

»
:

Organization for Economic Cooperation
and Dévelopment {OECD}

The Bank partidipated in @ meeting organized by
the Development Assistance Committee of OECD in
Paris in December. The President and a small team
of advisers represented the Bank. The main purpose
of the meeting was to examine the problems of
development of the Southeast Asian region. The
meeting provided an opportunity for acquainting
members of OECD with the progress made by the
Bank in its first three years. The President emphasized the role that the Bank could play in assisting
developing member countries to face their problems
as also the need for increased contributions to the
Bank’s Speciat Funds resources to enable it to play
its part effectively. The meeting showed particular
interest in the Bank's lending on concessional terms
and a number of OECD members supported the President’s appeal for further contributions to the
Special Funds.

Regional Development Banks

The Presidents of the regional banks—the InterAmerican, the Asian, the African and the Central
American—held a joint meeting at the headquarters
of the Inter-American Development Bank in Washington in September 1969.

The four Presidents reviewed regional develop.
ment activities and exchanged views on their roles
in financing development in their respective Latin
American, Asian, African and Central American
areas,

 

Seoul-Inchon Expressway—a 29.9 kilometer, four-iane,
limited access highway-was financed by a Bank toan,Capital Subscription

Subscriptions of members to the authorized
capital stock of the Bank stood at $978 million at
the end of the year. (See table on page 46.) This
amount includes the subscription of Hong Kong,
which became a member in March.

The fourth instalment of subscriptions to paid-in
capita! from members other than Switzerland and
Hong Kong which fell due on 22 August 1969 was
received by the Bank. Hong Kong paid the first
instatment of her capital subscription on 27 March.
On 29 December, Switzerland paid her third instalment. These payments increased the Bank’s paid-in
capital at the end of the year to the equivalent of
$388.50 million of which the equivalent of $326.50
million was in convertible currenciés.

The ordinary capital resources of the Bank,
which include borrowings, ordinary reserve and net
income but exclude the capital set aside for special
operations, increased to $401.40 million of which
$339.40 million was in convertible currencies. Total
approvais of loans from these resources amounted
to $117.69 million and disbursements thereunder to
$9.20 million.

Under Article 6.3 of the Artictes of Agreement,
members have the option to pay the Articte 6.2(b}
portion of their capital subscription in the form of
non-interest-bearing promissory notes. Payment of
this portion in cash augments the Bank's resources
available for investment. As in previous years,
Austria, the Federal Republic of Germany, italy,
Norway and Switzerland paid in cash the fourth
instalment of their capital subscription due under
Article 6.2{b). Australia authorized the conversion
into cash of the promissory note pertaining to its
payment of the Article 6.2(6) portion of its first
instalment of capital subscription, enabling the Bank
to invest the amount. The cash payment of the
6.2{b) portion by some members resulted in higher
earnings for the Bank from its investments.

Investment of Bank Funds

At the end of 1969, the Bank’s investments
amounted to the equivalent of $225.7 million,
which represents the Bank’s convertible currency
funds not currently required for operations. Of

these investments, 32.8 per cent was in the form of
government securities or government-guaranteed
obligations of member countries and 67.2 per cent
in time deposits with banks in member, countries
and with the Bank for International Settlements.

In investing its funds, the Bank has been guided
by considerations of security, liquidity and yield
subject to the requirements of Article 24 of the
Asticles of Agreement. In accordance with the
guidelines set forth by the Board of Directors
in 1967 and reviewed in 1968, the Bank continued
to invest the funds not required for its operations in
government securities or government-guaranteed
obligations of member countries maturing not more
than five years after the date of purchase and in
time deposits or certificates of deposit of commercial banks in member countries maturing within two
years. These guidelines remained unchanged during
1969.

Loan Participations

During the first half of 1969, a number of commercial banks in the United States and Japan responded favorably to the Bank's offer of participation in the maturities of several Bank loans for their
own account and without recourse to the Bank.
These participations amounted to $285,000 raising
total participations since operations commenced to
$3,085,000. During the jatter half of the year,
interest rates in world capital markets moved upward, in many cases reaching unprecedented levels.
This made it financially unattractive for commercial
banks to participate in the Bank’s loans at the
Bank's standard lending rate.

Income and Expenditure

Owing to the increase in the funds available with
the Bank for investment and the upsurge in interest
rates in world money markets, the Bank substantially increased jts total income. The gross income of
the Bank during 1969 amounted to $12,979,813.
The gross expenditure of the Bank during the year
amounted to $7,435,477, so that the net income,
after appropriating commission on loans aggregating
$40,434 to Special Reserve, in accordance with
Article 16.1 and 17 of the Articles of Agreement,
was $5,503,902 compared with $3,482,897 inThe above net income is available for aliocard of Governors, in accordance with
¢ Article 40.1 of the Articles of

68.
ain by the Boat
@ provisions o

greement.

Member Currencies: Changes in Value

‘on 18 August 1969, Cambodia fixed the parity
its currency at Riels 55.54 to US$1. Since the
xchange rate of Cambodia's currency, prior to the
above action, was set at Riels 35 to US$1, the

Cambodian Government has informed the Bank of

its currency to maintain, in accordance with Artife 25.1 of the Articles of Agreement, the value of
¢ Article 6.2 (b) portion of capital subscription
staiments paid in the focal currency at the old
te of Riels 35 equivalent to USS1.”

ne amount was paid in January 1970

intention to pay the required additional amount |

Effective from’ 27 October 1969, the Government of the Federal Republic of Germany revaiued
the Deutsche Mark to DM3.66 per US dollar from
the previous parity rate of DM4,00 per US dollar.
As a consequence of this development, the Bank
revalued the currency holdings of Deutsche Mark
and refunded to the Federal Republic of Germany
DM3,911,839, being the amount required to adjust
the value of the Bank’s currency holdings of Deutsche Marks, in accordance with the provisions of
Article 25.2 of the Articles of Agreement.

Bank’s Borrowing Operations

During the year under review, the Bank continued
to watch closely developments on the international
capital market and to survey possibilities for entering the market at an appropriate time.

The Asian Development Bank end the Deutsche Bank Aktiengeselischaft, as leader of an international syndicate of banks,
Signed at Frankfurt am Main on 10 September 1969 an agreement for a DIM66 million bond issue. Seated from left to
right: Bank Financial Advisor Edgar Plan: Manfred Havenschild (Board mem

 

Watanabe; Wilfred Guth (Board member, Deutsche Bank) and Bank Treasurer SMA. Kazmi.

 

ber, Deutsche Bank): Bank President Takeshi

é
i
\
t
ly

|The Bank made its first bond issue in September—the main purpose being to establish its credit
standing and to familiarize investors with the Bani.
The issue took place in the Federal Republic of
Germany and consisted of DM 60 million 7 per cent
1S-year bonds, which were priced at 97-1/2 per
cent. The bonds which are dated 1 September 1969
are redeemable in 10 equal annual instalments com:
mencing 1 September 1975 and can be called from
1975 onwards. The issue was placed through an
international syndicate of 69 banks of 13 countries,
headed by Deutsche Bank A.G. The Bank bonds
were subsequently listed on the stock exchanges of
Frankfurt am Main and Dusseldorf, Germany, and
of Vienna, Austria.

The Bank continued the process of obtaining

qualification legislation in the various states of the’

United States that would give its bonds as favorable
@ position with respect to regulated investors as that
enjoyed by bonds of the World Bank and the InterAmerican Development Bank. Following enactment
of legislation in California, Massachusetts, New
Jersey, New York and Pennsylvania in the previous
year, additional action was taken in 1969 in
Colorado, Connecticut, Hawaii, ilinois, Maine, Ohio
and Washington. This program of bond qualification, which is to be pursued in additional states in
subsequent years, sets the basis for successful entry
of the Bank in the United States market when it
seeks to issue its bonds,

 

SUBSCRIPTIONS TO AUTHORIZED

CAPITAL STOCK

{as of 31 December 1969)

Regional Members

Afghanistan
Australia
Cambodia

Ceylon

China, Republic of
Hong Kong

India

Indonesia

Japan

Korea, Republic of
Laos

Malaysia

Nepai

New Zealand
Pakistan
Philippines
Singapore
Thaitfand
Viet-Nam, Republic of
Western Samoa

Non-Regional Members

Austria
Belgium

Canada
Denmark
Finland
Germany, Federal Republic of
Italy
Netherlands
Norway

Sweden
Switzerland
United Kingdom
United States

Total

$000

4,780
85,000
3,500
8,520
16,000
8,000
93,000
25,000
200,000
30,000
420
20,000
2,160
22,560
32,000
35,000
5,000
20,000
12,000
60

623,000:48

Two developments during the year of great
importance to developing member countries were {i}
the commencement in June of Jending by the Bank
on concessional terms from Special Funds resources
and {ii} additions to the Special Funds resources to
the extent of $39,404,000 consisting of
$24,829,000 from member countries and an amount
of $14,575,000 “set aside” from the Bank’s ordinary capital by decision of the Board of Governors
acting in conformity with Article 19,3 of the Char.
ter. New Agreements for capital contributions were
concluded with Denmark, Japan and the Netherlands,
Contributions or arrangements for contributions to
the Technical Assistance Special! Fund were made
by Denmark, Finland, Federal Republic of Germany, Japan, New Zealand and United States. in
addition Japan, the United Kingdom and the United
States extended the periods of availability of their
previous offers of technical assistance.

Towards the end of the year, the Netherlands
Government, supported by the Government of Indonesia, proposed the establishment of a Special Fund
for West frian for which the Netherlands was prepared to offer an additional Special Funds contribution of $5,000,000, The proposal is being studied in
the Bank.
* An encouraging feature of the latest contributions to the Bank’s Special Funds was a significant
liberalization in their terms; for the bulk of the néw
contributions (i) the area of procurement may be
extended to include, as well as the contributing
countries, developing member countries and members making capitai contributions to the Special
Funds, and (ii} the Bank, where need exists, may in
consultation with the contributor, further ease the
terms of its lending from contributed resources. The
effect of these liberalizations was felt in Special
Funds operations towards the close of the year,
which included approvals for commitments amount
ing to $8,410,000 at interest rates of 1-1/2 to 2 per
cent.“six loans from Special Funds resources were
proved during the year with a total commitment
$22,005,000 spread over five countries—Ceylon,
ionesia, Nepal, Philippines and Western Samoa.

 

The foans are summarized in the following table
and descriptions of the projects are given in the
country sections in Part I.

: Amount Term (Y ears) interest
Project i
roves {$ Million} inc, Grace Period %

Walawe Development 7.705 28 3
Tadjum irrigation 0.990 24-1/2 3
Sawit Sebarang Oil 2.400 24.4/2 3

Palm Estate
Air Transport 6.010 30 2

Development
Cotabato Irrigation 2,500 25 3
Faieoto Airport and Road 2.400 30 + 1-4/2

Utilization

As indicated above, loan commitments from
Special Funds amounted at the end of the year to
$22,005,000, or about 31 per cent of total Special
Funds contributions so far made available, i.e/, excluding contributions for technical assistance and
contributions payable in subsequent years. A sum
of $80,000 had been disbursed for the Tadjum Irrigation Project in Indonesia, the first of the projects
approved for financing from Speciat Funds resources,

In the case of the Technical Assistance Special
Fund, assistance from which has been provided in
the form of grants, an amount of $413,297 had
been utilized from the contributions; of this
amount, the share of Canada was: $74,159; Denmark: $21,200; Finland: $8,178; Federal Republic
ot Germany: $9,867; Japan: $152,686; United
Kingdom: $35,701; and United States: $111,506.

Ten countries shared in the disbursements from
the Technica! Assistance Fund: Ceylon: $17,960;
Republic of China: $13,276; indonesia: $50,551;
Republic of Korea: $11,698; Laos: $11,685;
Malaysia: $15,546; Nepal: $32,706; Philippines:

A view of the Uda Walawe dam area, The power plant
is behind the elephants which are a common sight in the
area, Bank loans from both Special Funds and ordinary
capital resources will finance part of the development cost
of the Right Bank Area of the Walawe Development
Scheme.

4o$128,718; Thailand: $8,178; Republic of VietNam: $41,939.

An additional amount of $81,040 was expended
on regional and other services. :

Special Operations Loan Regulations

During the first half of 1969, the Bank took up
the task of preparing a set of standard terms and
conditions to be applied to loans from the Bank's
Special Funds resources. As a result, the ‘Special
Operations Loan Regulations’ (hereinafter calied
the Loan Regulations} were formally adopted by
the Board of Directors on 6 May.

The Loan Regulations closely follow the pattern
of the Bank’s Loan Regulations No. 1 adopted for
ordinary operations except where a different treatment is required in view of the nature of special
operations, the provisions of the Special Funds
Rules and Regulations, or the terms on which
Special Funds contributions have been made available. Thus, there is no provision in the Loan Regulations for a commitment fee or premium on prepayments or for the one per cent commission appiicable to ordinary operations, nor is there any provision for delivery of bonds, which is not contemplated in special operations, Moreover, interest will
be charged only if the Loan Agreement so provides
and shall be payable at the rate and in the currency
specified in the Loan Agreement.

Nevertheless, pursuant to Section 4.05{a} of the
Special Funds Rules and Regulations, provision is
made in the Loan Regulations for a service fee to
be charged in all cases, and there is also a provision
for a charge for special commitments (i.e., irrevocable letters of credit) similar to that provided for
in ordinary operations, to be payable in the currency specified in the Loan Agreement, Further,
consistent with the Special Funds Rules and Regulations, it is provided that principal and interest shalj
be payable in the currency loaned, but that the
Bank may consent to alternative payment in gold or
any currency determined by the Bank to be convertible. Similarly, in view of the provisions of the
various Special Funds contribution agreements, it is
provided that withdrawals may be made by the
borrower only in the currency of the country in
_ which procurements took place.

it is intended to review the present Loan Regulations after some experience has been gained in their
use.

 

B. SPECIAL FUNDS RESOURCES

In 1969 the Consolidated Special Funds of the
Bank were augmented by the equivalent of $24,899
million in contributions and by an authorization for

the “set-aside” of up to $14.575 million from the |”

Bank's ordinary capital resources for this purpose,
New contribution agreements were signed with Den.
mark, Finland, Federal Republic of Germany
(renewal of technical assistance grant), Japan, the
Netherlands, New Zealand and the United States,
Total Special Funds Contributions at the end of the
year, including commitments for subsequent years,
amounted to $84.92 miflion. (See table on page 51,}

The largest contribution in 1969 was a second
instalment of *7,2600,000,000, equivalent to
$20,000,000, of Japan's capital contribution to the
Consolidated Special Funds. This second instalment,
which was the subject of an exchange of fetters
between Japan and the Bank on 27 November
1968, was allocated to the Multi-Purpose Special
Fund. The permissible area of procurement using
the Japanese contributed funds has been extended,
by agreement, as fotlows: .

{i} the portion allocated to the Multi-Purpose
Special Fund may be used for procurement in the territories of the Bank’s developing member countries and of those
developed member countries which contribute to the Consolidated Special Funds
{other than the Technical Assistance
Special Fund);

{ii) repayments of and income from both portions of the Japanese contribution may be
used for procurement in contributing
countries and inthe territories of all members of the Bank, as provided in Section
3.05 of the Special Funds Rules and Regulations,

tn addition to broadening the procurement rules
applicable to its Special! Funds contribution Japan
has indicated that in special circumstances where
the Bank finds that more concessional terms than
hitherto are appropriate, such terms may be applied.

There were two further contributions to the
Agricultural Special Fund:

(a) On 1 April the Bank signed a contriputionreement with Denmark whereby the latter con‘triputed 45,000,000 Danish Kroner (equivalent
‘40 $2,000,000} to be allocated to the Agricultural Special Fund. The contribution’ is interestfree and is repayable in regular half-yearly instalments commencing in Apri} 1976 and extending
to October 1993. It is for use by the Bank for
making foans and for providing reimbursable
> technical assistance; and except as shall otherwise
be agreed between the contracting parties, for
procurement of goods and services with a high
Danish content.

{b) At the Bank‘s Second Annual Meeting in
April the Netherlands offered to contribute
4,000,000 guilders (equivalent, to $1,104,972) for
allocation to the Agricultural Special Fund. The
Netherlands contribution is available for procurement in the Netherlands, in developing member
countries, and in such other developed member
countries as make capital contributions to the
Consolidated Special Funds on procurement con
 

 

 

 

 

 

Fechnical
Contributor Assistance
. Special Fund
Canada $ 100,0cG0
Denmark 300,000
Finland 8,178
Germany, Federal Republic of 43,151
Japan 313,982
Netherlands
2 New Zealand 468,000"
United Kingdom 56,895
United States 1,250,000
Set- aside
Capital
Total $2,240,206

 

 

 

i As of 31 December 1969, $10,000,000 was available and
the balance of $15,000,000 will be available in annual
instalments of $5,000,000 in each of the three Canadian
financial years beginning 1 April 1970.

ditions not less liberal than those of the Netherlands. The Netherlands contribution was accompanied by a fetter indicating an expectation that
the contribution should be used mainly in Southeast Asia and that it was intended to be followed
by additional yearly contributions for the next
severa! years. i

The Technicaf Assistance Specia! Fund received
the following contributions or arrangements for contributions:

(a) In January the Bank concluded an exchange
of fetters with Finland for the provision of services of Finnish technical experts and such other
Finnish facilities as might be agreed from time to
time. At the Second Annual Meeting the Governor for Finland extended this offer to include
the financing of Finnish consultants and consulting engineers to carry out feasibility studies and
project analyses.

CONTRIBUTIONS TO CONSOLIDATED SPECIAL FUNDS
(as of 31 December 1969)

Commitments

 

   

 

 

MultiAgricuitural Purpose Total
Special Fund Special Fund

$25,000,000" $25,100,000
2,000,000 _— 2,300,000
—— —_ 8,178
a ——_ 43,151
26,000,000 20,000,000 40,343,982
1,104,972 a 1,104,972
— —_ 168,000
— __ 56,895
— 1,250,000
—= 744,575,000 44,575,000
$23,104,972 $59,575,000 $84,920,178

2 This amount will be available to the Bank in amounts up
to $84,000 in each of the two New Zealand financial
years beginning 1 April 1970 and 1 April 1971 or at any
time thereafter,(b} An exchange of letters completed in

February confirmed Denmark’s offer to con
tribute the sum of 2,250,000 Danish Kroner

{equivalent to $300,000) as a grant for technical

assistance purposes. A fourth of this Danish con
tribution was freed for procurement outside

Denmark. ‘

(c) In March the Federal Republic of Germany

agreed to continue during 1969 the arrangements

for German technical assistance to the Bank

agreed on for 1968.

(d) In May the United States and the Bank

exchanged letters constituting an agreement for a

$1,000,000 coritribution allocated to the Tech
nical Assistance Special Fund for procurement of
services from the United States for the Southeast

Asian Regional Transport Survey being under
taken by the Bank.

{e} In June, Japan and the Bank signed an

agreement for a further ¥72,000,000 (equivalent

to $200,000) grant allocation to the Bank’s

Technicat Assistance Special Fund for procure
ment of services of Japanese consultants and

speciafists and of library materiais.

(f} In November the Bank accepted an offer

from New Zealand of a contribution of

NZ$150,000 ($168,000) allocated to the Tech
nical Assistance Special Fund to be made avail
able in the two financial years ending March

1971 and 1972 or at any time thereafter to

finance services of New Zealand experts for the

widest possible range of feasibility and pre-investment studies,

{g) In addition Japan, the United Kingdom, and

the United States extended the periods of avail
ability of their previous offers of technical assistance,

At the Second Annual Meeting the Board of
Governors, in response to the recommendation of
the Board of Directors, authorized theset-aside’’of
$14,575,000 from the Bank’s ordinary capital for
Special Funds uses. Autharity for such transfers,
limited to tO per cent of the Bank’s unimpaired
paid-in capital in total, is contained in Article 19.1
{i} of the Articles of Agreement. The funds involved
will be allocated to the Multi-Purpose Special Fund
as needed and are available for procurement
throughout the Bank’s membership.

The Board of Governors endorsed the view that:

“In the initial stages and pending receipt by the

Bank of contributed resources from a consider
able number of contributors, the availability o¢

modest amounts of Special Funds resources from

a “'set-asice” action will permit needed flexibility ip

the Bank’s special operations so .as to secure

optimum benefits to recipients.” .

The action of the Board of Governors under
Article 19.1 underlines the importance of building
up the Bank’s contributed Special Funds resources, f
If the growing pace of the Bank's special cpeérations F
is not to be hampered, considerable additional con.
tributions will be needed in 1970.

 

 

 

   
 

PSs

    

A view of Faleolo Airport and of the road linking the
airport with Apia, both of whith are to be improved with
the support of a concessional loan from the Bank.Membership Developments
Hong Kong

The Bank’s membership increased from 32 to 33
during the year. Discussions with British and Hong
Kong authorities preparatory to an application by
Hong Kong for membership in the Bank took piace
in 1968, The discussions led to the opening of
negotiations with the Governments of Hang Kong
and the United Kingdom early in 1969 and Hong
Kong‘s application for membership presented by the
Government of the United Kingdom was considered
by the Board of Directors on 4 March. The Board,
after noting with approval the ‘proposed terms of
the application for membership and of the undertaking by the United Kingdom of responsibility for
the obligations of Hong Kong in terms of Article 3,
paragraph 3, of the Articles, recommended to the
Governors a draft Resolution admitting Hong Kong
to membership of the Bank. The resolution was
duly approved by the Governors and Hong Kong’s
membership became effective on 27 March with the
payment of the initial instalment of its subscription.
The distribution of voting power among the Governors of the Bank as a sequel to the admission of
Hong Kong as a member is given with the statement
of subscriptions in Appendix-1-V.

Board of Governors

Several changes occurred during 1969 in the composition of the Board of Governors, !n October, the
Government of Korea appointed Mr. Duck Woo
“Nam as Governor of the Bank in succession to Mr.
dong Ryul Whang. Mr. Duck Woo Nam accordingly
became Chairman of the Board of Governors. Other
changes are shown in the list of Governors and
Alternate Governors which appears in Appendix 6.

At the invitation of the Government of the Commonwealth of Australia, the Second Annual Meeting
of the Board of Governors was held in Sydney from
10-12 April 1969. A fist of the resolutions adopted
at the Second Annual Meeting appears in Appendix
3:

At this meeting, the Board of Governors resolved
to increase the size of the Bank’s Board of Directors
from 10 to 72 {one each from the regional and

 

vat the next election in 1971.

non-regional members), the increase to take effect

The Board of Governors also resolved under Sec.
tion 19{i) of the Articles to make available from the
Bank’s capital an amount of $14.57 million to the
Special Funds for concessional lending and author.
ized a procedure for determining before 39
September 1969 an appropriate time and place for
the Third Annual Meeting of the Board. Following
the receipt of an invitation from the Government of
the Republic of Korea, the Governors determined
that the Third Annual Meeting take place in Seoul,
Korea, from 9-11 April 1970,

Board of Directors

During the course of the year, the following
changes took place in the Board of Directors:

Directors

(i) Mr. Wazir Ali (Pakistan) was elected by
Pakistan and the Philippines with effect
from 4 February to fill the vacancy caused
by the resignation of Mr. C. Balmaceda
(Philippines), Mr. Wazir Ali resigned with

. effect from 31 December.”

(ii) An election of Directors was heid on Ii
April during the Second Annual Meeting
in Sydney and of the ten Directors
elected, six--Messrs. Wazir Ali (Pakistan),
Byung Kyu Chun (Korea), Masaru Fukuda
(Japan), P.V.R. Rao (India), R.J. Whitelaw
(Australia), and Bernard Zagorin (United
States)-were re-elected Directors. The four
new Directors were:

Mr. R. W. H. du Boulay (U. K.) succeeding Mr. W.
K, Wardroper (Canada).

{Mr. du Boulay had been an Alternate Director in
the previous Board.)

Mr, Michelangelo de Grazia {Italy} succeeding Mr,
H, Abramowski {Federal Republic of Germany).

Mr. Abdul Wahab Haider (Afghanistan) succeeding

Mr. R. A. Kartadjoemena (Indonesia).

Mr. Chanchai Leetavorn (Thailand) succeeding Mr.

Lim Taik Choon (Malaysia).

(Mr. Leetavorn had been an Alternate Director in

the previous Board.}
The term of office of the new Board commenced

from 1 June.

   
   
 

*The vacancy was filled by Mr. K.S. Islam with effect from
1 January 1970,i) Mr. D. S. Joshi {India} was elected by
India with effect from 8 July to fill the
vacancy caused by the resignation of Mr.
P,V.R. Rao.

{iv} Mr. J.C.G. Lloyd (Austraiia) was elected
by Australia with effect from 25 October
to fill the vacancy caused by the resignation of Mr. R. J. Whitelaw.

Alternate Directors

(i) Mr. C. Balmaceda (Philippines) was
appointed by Mr. Wazir Ali as his Afternate with effect from 4 February.
Following the election of Directors at the
Second’ Annual Meeting, five serving Alternate Directors (Messrs. C, Balrnaceda, Buu
Hoan, Fumio Kawano, J, R. Hiremath and
George R. Jacobs} were reappointed and
five new Alternates were appointed as
follows:

Gerhard Janschek {Austria) replacing Mr. Denis
;tthomme (Belgium).

Long Boret (Cambodia) replacing Mr. V. M.
s (Ceylon).

Leo J. Downey (New Zealand) repiacing Mr.
nchaj Leetavorn (Thailand).

John A. Coptand (Canada} replacing Mr. R.W.H.
“Boulay (United Kingdom).

Lance Joseph (Australia) replacing Mr. F. R.
ilrymple (Australia).

list of Directors and Alternates as of the end
he year appears in Appendix 7.

During the year, there were 50 meetings of the

sessions.

Basic Organization

The reorganization of the operational departments of the Bank, approved late in 1968, was
implemented early in the year.

The reorganized Operations Department was
made the focal point of contact with the Bank’s
clients, irrespective of the types of assistance sought
or rendered.

The former Economic and Technical Assistance
Department was reorganized as the Projects DepartMent and is staffed with specialists in the several

ard of Directors, including regular and executive.

disciplines which are most relevant to the economic
development of the region.

A separate Economic Office, which includes the
Statistics Section, was established. This Office has
been responsible for the preparation of papers on
potentia} Bank activities in such fields as export
financing, small-scale industry, and education; and
has carried out applied research on national income
statistics and trade patterns in the area.

The Office of the Financial Advisor was separated’ from the Treasury Department and made
responsible for advising the President on the investment of the Bank’s funds and in the matter of bond
issués and other borrowings.

‘

Recruitment

The Bank continued to pursue its objectives of
securing the highest standards of technical competence and efficiency whilst paying due regard to
geographical distribution. Beginning with a complement of 297 staff members comprising 94 professionals and 203 non-professionais in January, recruitment efforts during the year, through advertisements and contacts in various countries, added
another 49 professionals and 92 non-professionais to
the Bank’s staff. Twenty-nine nationalities were
represented in a total staff at the end of the year of
438 {excluding the President and Vice President).

In order to maintain the Bank’s capacity to
attract suitably qualified staff from a competitive
market, especialiy in relation to organizations
engaged in similar developmental activities, a general
salary revision was effected during the year.

Philippine Coordinating Committee

The Philippine Coordinating Committee, headed
by Mr. Cornelio Balmaceda, who is also a member
of the Board of Directors of the Bank, continued to
assist in providing on behalf of the Government of
the Philippines additional furnished office accommodation and facilities to the Bank, and in acting as a
liaison body between the Bank and the agencies of
the Philippine Government.

During 1969, the Committee provided the Bank
with additional office accommodation in Oledan
Building and expanded office accommodation in
Rufino . Building on Ayala Avenue, Makati. The

65Bank is now located in Amalgamated, Oledan,
Rufino and Metropotitan buildings, which are all
situated on Ayala Avenue, Makati,

The foundation of the new Headquarters Building on Roxas Boulevard, Pasay City, has been completed, The construction of the building was
delayed but the Bank has been informed that
occupancy may be possible in mid-1971.

 

1968
Actual

Il. Ordinary Capital Resources
1, Gross Income Net

Of Special Reserve 7.47
2, Less;

internal Administrative

Expenses 3.57
3. Net Income Before

Services to

Member Countries 3.60
4, Less:

Services to

Member Countries . 0,42
5, Net income After

Services to

Member Countries 3.48
6. Less:

Financial Expenses? _
7. Net Income After

Financial Expenses?" . i 3.48
Il. Special Funds Resources
Expenses Charged to Technical
Assistance Special Fund of which 0.21
a. Internal Administrative

Expenses 0.13
b. Services to Member

Countries 0.08

1 Incjusive of expenditure from ordinary and Special Funds
resources of the Bank.

 

 

Administrative Budget

The Administrative Budget for 1970 was
approved by the Boardrof Directors in December and
a summary thereof appears in Appendix 2. It provides for “Internal Administrative Expenses’
amounting to $7.36 mitlion and for “Services to
Member Countries” amounting to $3.30 million,
The table below summarizes the Bank's gross
income, internal administrative expenses, expendi.
ture on Services to Member Countries, interest on
bonds and the net income for the years 1968, 1969

and 1970,

1969 1970
Budget Actual Budget

{in million dollars)

 

 

 

10.00 12.94 21.24
6.482 5.65 7.367
3.52 7.29 13.88
1.757 1.44 3,302
177 5.85 1058

- 0,34 2.77
177 5.51 7.81
0.44
0.20
0,21

2. Inclusive of interest on funded debt.Ny =

enon Pw

Financial Statements and Opinions of Independent Auditors
Summary of Administrative Budget

Resolutions of Board of Governors During 1969

Channels of Communication
Official Depositories

Board of Governors $
Board of Directors and Voting Groups

Principal Officersseers. APPENDIX 1

 

FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND OPINIONS OF INDEPENDENT AUDITORS

ORDINARY CAPITAL RESOURCES:

1 Balance Sheet

it Comparative Statement of Income and Expenses

lil Statement of Cash in Banks and Demand Obligations of
Members

IV Statement of Loans
Statement of Subscriptions toe Capital Stock and
Voting Power

VI Notes to Financial Statements

Opinion of (Independent Auditors

SPECIAL FUNDS RESOURCES:

Balance Sheet

Comparative Staternent of Income and Expenses
Statement of Loans

Statement of Contributed Resources

Statement of Set-Aside Resources

Statement of Accrued Resources

Qa.7m™ 7008 >

echnical Assistance Special Fund Balance Sheet

Agricultural Special Fund Balance Sheet
1 Multi-Purpose Special) Fund Balance Sheet
(Serres Assistance Special Fund Statement of

income and Expenses

(yer Assistance Special Fund Statement of
: 4

xpenses by Projects and Programs
-L_ Notes to Financial Statements

Opinion of Independent Auditors

 

59ASIAN DEVELOPMENT BANK —

 

 

 

BALANCE si
December 3
Expressed in United 5 Si
OO " a
ASSETS ip
~ TO ae a
CASH IN BANKS {Note B} Di i
Member currencies (See Appendix 4-111) $ 7,168,465
INVESTMENTS {Note B)
Government and government-guaranteed
obligations-amortized cost
Maturities not exceeding one year
(Face amount $40,138,949} $ 39,906,815
Maturities over one year
{Face amount $34,699,454) 34,364,242 $ 74,271,057
Time deposits and certificates of deposit
Maturities not exceeding one year 126,554,984
Maturities over one year 24,951,205 151,506,189
225,777,246
Accrued interest §,277, 836 232,055,082

DEMAND OBLIGATIONS OF MEMBERS
{Notes B and C}
Non-negotiable, non-interest-bearing
obligations in member currencies :
{See Appendix 1-111) 187,846,730
OTHER AMOUNTS RECEIVABLE FROM MEMBERS
Amount required to maintain value of

 

currency: holdings (Note D} 258,876

EFFECTIVE LOANS (See Appendix 1-1V}

Held by Bank 72,512,955

Agreed to be sold 3,085,000 75,597,955
UNAMORTIZED FUNDED DEBT ISSUANCE EXPENSES 847,397
OTHER ASSETS 529,436
SPECIAL RESERVE FUND ASSETS {Note E)

Cash in banks 20,070 t

Accrued loan commissions 22,548 42,558 x

STAFF RETIREMENT PLAN ASSETS
(Segregated and held in trust} {Note F} 4,120,153

 

sg

TOTAL $485,467 ,246

The accompanying notes to financial statements (Appendix 1-V1) are an integral part of this statement.ADINARY CAPITAL RESOURCES

EET

94, 1969
States Dollars (Note A}

      

LIABILITIES
Accounts payable
Acetued interest on funded debt
Undisbursed balance of effective loans
See Apperidix 1-1V}

Held by Bank

Agreed to be sold
Funded debt (Note G)

$ 64,114,696.
3,085,000

“SPECIAL RESERVE (Note E}

STAFF RETIREMENT PLAN RESERVE (Note F}

_ CAPITAL (Note C)

Capital stock (See Appendix 1-V)
Authorized-—-55,000 “Paid-in' shares
and 55,000 “callable” shares of
$10,000 par value each

Subseribed (97,800 shares)

Less ‘‘cailable” shares subscribed
{48,900 shares)

“Paid-in’ shares subscribed
(48,900 shares)

Less subscription instalments not due

Subscription instalments matured
Capita! authorized to be set aside .
for special operations (Note C} 14,575,000
Capital for ordinary operations 373,925,000

Ordinary Reserve (Note H)

Net income for the year ended December 31, 1969
{to be allocated by the Board of Governors)

 

TOTAL

 

LIABILITIES, RESERVES AND CAPITAL

$ 743,718
382,514

67,199,696
16,393,443

978,000,000
489,000,000

489,000,000
100,500,000

388,500,000

5,581,262

5,503,902

APPENDIX 1-1

$ 84,718,371
42,558

1,120,153

399,585,164

$485,467 ,246

61APPENDIX F-1D bene t= Th a: ae

  

ASIAN DEVELOPMENT BANK — ORDINARY CAPITAL RESOURCES
COMPARATIVE STATEMENT OF INCOME AND EXPENSES

For the Years Ended December 31, 1968 anc December 31, 1969
Expressed in United States Dollars {Note A)

INCOME From investments
From loan operations
Interest
Commissions
Commitment charge
From other sources

GROSS INCOME

Deduct commissions appropriated to Specia! Reserve (Note E}
UNAPPROPRIATED GROSS INCOME

EXPENSES. Administrative expenses
Board of Governors

Board of Directors
Salaries
Benefits
Travel
Staff services

Total Board of Directors

Statt
Salaries
Benefits
Travel
Representation
Consultants

Total statf

Other administrative expenses
Communications
Office occupancy
Publications and printing
Expendable supplies
Furniture and equipment
Fees and compensation
Miscellaneous

Total other administrative expenses
Total administrative expenses

Services to member countries
Project preparation and other loan-related technical assistance
Advisory missions and other technical assistance
Regional Transport Survey
Asian Agricultural Survey Follow-up Seminars
Other regional services

Total services to member countries

Financial expenses
Interest on funded debt
Funded debt issuance and other financial expenses

Total financial expenses
GROSS EXPENSES

NET JNCOME (Note C)

 

1968
$7,123,644

12,477

2,124
18,727
19,619

7,176,591

2,124

7,474 467

35,599

381,052
67,197
88,414
40,367

577,030

1,369,996
384,513
441,386

24,754
136,528

2,387,177

103,425
29,252
79,015
74/901
84,664

102,265

121.864

595,386

3,565,192

46,391
80,093

126,484

 

3,691,676

$3,482,791

The accompanying notes to financial statements (Appendix 1-VI) are an integral part Of this statement.

 

 

1969
$12,372,250

237,550
40,434
233,122
96,457

——
12,979,813

40,434
12,939,379

64,892

440,517
84,772
150,897
48,763

724,949

2,351,370
658,262
779,356

44/849
159,194

3,993,031

163,686

63,860
105,133
429,168
160,476
154.613

92.790

869,726
5,652,598

666,243
319,919
399,604
33,470
22,341

1,441,577

 

|

317,757
23,545

341,302
7,435,477

$ 5,863,902_

——

 

 

 

 

APPENDIX 1-H!

ASIAN DEVELOPMENT BANK — ORDINARY CAPITAL RESOURCES
STATEMENT OF CASH IN BANKS AND DEMAND OBLIGATIONS OF MEMBERS

December 31, 1969

Expressed in United States Dollars (Note A}

MEMBERS

Afghanistan
Australia

Austria

Belgium

Cambodia

Canada

Ceylon

China, Republic of
Denmark

Finland _
Germany, Federa! Republic of
Hong Kong

India

Indonesia

Italy .

Japan

Korea, Republic of
Laos .
Malaysia

Nepat

Netherlands

New Zealand
Norway

Pakistan
Philippines
Singapore

Sweden
Switzerland
Thailand

United Kingdom
United States
VietNam, Republic of

Western Samoa

 

‘The accompanying notes to

UNIT OF CURRENCY

 

Afghani
Australian Dollar
Austrian Schilling
Belgian Franc

Riel

Canadian Dollar
Ceylon Rupee
New Taiwan Doilar
Danish Krone
Finnish Markka
Deutsche Mark
Hong Kong Doilar
Indian Rupee
Rupiah

_ Malian Lira

Yen

Won

Kip

Maiaysian Dollar
Nepajese Rupee
Netherlands Guiider
New Zealand Doilar
Norwegian Krone
Pakistan Rupee
Phitippine Peso
Singapore Doilar
Swedish Krona
Swiss Franc

Baht

Pound Sterling
United States Dollar
Piastre

Western Samoan Dollar

CASH IN
BANKS

$ —

40,4243
762
10,662
441,1241
47,952
1,315
2,512
623,895
4,206
8,675
2,849,2981
14,994
3,615
5578
81,1547
20,812
4,613

6,810
200,373
14,595
3,554
8,471
110,054
262,404
2,399,2744
45391

$7,168,465

1. Restrictions on use may be imposed by memners (Note 6).

2. Rastrictions on use have been imposed by members (Note 6).

3 Of this amount, restrictions on use have been imposed in the amount of $39,638.

 

 

 

DEMAND
OBLIGATIONS
OF MEMBERS

$s  956,0001
12,750,0002

986,000
5,000,000
1,696,7283
3,023,5481
1,000,000
1,000,000

500,0007 
18,573,3342
2,124,119

40,000,000
5,973,198?
3,979,093

425,5461
2,200,000
4,512,0007
6,385,1704
4,800,000

983,667
4,000,000
3,979,3274
6,000,000

40,000,000

$167,846,730

financial statements (Appendix 1-V1) are an integral part of this statement.

63ASIAN DEVELOPMENT BANK W

 
 
  
     

 

   

STATEMENT oO
December 3
Expressed in United §

interest Rate Se

Loan Date of Loan {including Principat

Member, Purpose and Borrower No. Agreement Maturities commission) Amount +
: CT

CEYLON |
Industry—Central Bank of Ceylon 2CEY July 17°68 1971-1983 6-7/8% $ 2,000,000 $

Agriculture—Ceylon 17 CEY Nov. 6'69 1974-1884 6-7/8 885,000

CHINA, REPUBLIC OF

Roads—Republic of China 5 CHI Nov. 30'68 1971-1978 6-7/8 400,000
industry-Chinese Petroleum

Corporation {Guaranteed by Member} 7 CHI Dec. 27°68 1872-1980 6-7/8 10,200,000
Industry—Republic of China 11 CHI Apr. 10'69 1972-1981 6-7/8 10,000,000
Industry—Taiwan Aluminum

Corporation {Guaranteed by Member) 26 CHI Dec, 15°69 1973-1982 6-7/8 2,670,000
tndustry—T aiwan Metal Mining ‘

Corporation {Guaranteed by Member} 21 CHI Dec. 15'69 4973-1981 6-7/8 1,150,006
Harbor Deveiopment— Republic of China 22 CHI Dec. 15’69 1972-1982 6-7/8 90,000

KOREA, REPUBLIC OF
Roads— Republic of Korea 3KOR Sept. 16°68 1972-1983 6-7/8 8,800,000

Industry—!Corea Coid Storage 3
Company Limited (Guaranteed by Member) 10KOR Mar. 22'69 1973-1984 6-7/8 7,000,000

Industry—The {Corea Express
Company Limited (Guaranteed by Member} 14 KOR Sept, 17°69 1971-3980 67/8 7,500,000

industry—The Medium tndustry
Bank (Guaranteed by Member) 23 KOR Dec. 1969 Not Fixed? Variable? 10,000,000

FORWARD $ 59,595,008OF LOANS

31, 1969

 

States Dollars (Note A)

ORDINARY CAPITAL RESOURCES

APPENDIX 1-1V

 

 

  
 
 

Payments Received

Effective Loans

Undisbursed Batances of Effective Loans

 

 

  
 
  
  
 
 
 

 

   

 

 

Loans
not yet On Loans Held For Loans Held Soild or Agreed Held Sold or Agreed
Effective by Bank Sold by Bank to be Sold by Bank to be Sold
- $s - s = $ 2,000,000 $ - $ 1,596,101 $ 885,000 - - - - <n - - me 400,000 _ 260,036 _ = ad 8,450,000 1,750,000 8,450,000 4,750,000
- -_ 9,450,000 560,000 9,450,000 550,000
2,670,000 - - - = = _
4,150,000 = . = - = _
990,000 _ = _ = _ ms
= _ 785,000 6,015,000 _ 1,944,070 al
_ - - 6,500,000 600,000 6,384,563 500,600
7,500,000 - = _ ron = 10,000,000 - = - _ = $23,195,000 $ —- $785,000 $32,815,000 $2,800,000 $28,081,770 $2,800,000ASIAN DEVELOPMENT BANK —

STATEMENT ¢
December 224 3
Expressed in United ade ‘
Interest Rate 4
Loan Date of Loan {including Principal :
Member, Purpose and Borrower No. Agreement Maturities commission) Amount “ ;
3 |
FORWARD $59,595,000 4
MALAYSIA :
Water Supply—Malaysia 4 MAL Sept. 23°68 1973-1988 6-7/8% 7,200,000
Land Development—Malaysia 8 MAL Feb, 15'69 1974-1888 6-7/8 2,800,000
Port Development—Malaysia 18 MAL Nov, 16’69 1975-1995 6-7/8 5,000,000
Electricity Supply—Malaysia 27 MAL Dec. 19°69 1975-1989 6-7/8 3,160,000
PAKISTAN
Industry—-Industrial Development Bank oa }
of Pakistan (Guaranteed by Member} 6 PAK Dec. 16°68 Not Fixed Variable 10,000,000
PHILIPPINES
Industry—Philippine National Bank 1 i
(Guaranteed by Member) 9 PHI Mar, 5’69 Not Fixed Variable 5,000,000
SINGAPORE ;
Industry—The Development Bank of i 4 4
Singapore Limited (Guaranteed by Member) 13 SIN July 16’69 Not Fixed Variable 40,000,000 q
THAILAND
industry—industrial Finance Corporation 1
of Thailand (Guaranteed by Member} 1TTHA Jan, 25’68 Not Fixed Variable? 5,000,000
ADJUSTMENTS iN US DOLLAR EQUI VALENTS OF LOANS DISBURSED
——e i
3 i
TOTAL Sere |
The accompanying notes to financial statements (Appendix 1-V1) are an integral part of this statement.
L Maturities and interest rates of Loan Nos. 1 THA, 6 amounts so committed aggregated $5,531,367 in

PAK, 9 PHi, 13 SIN and 23 KOR were not fixed at
the time the loan agreements were signed. Maturitles
will be fixed_at the time each portion of these ioans is
committed for a specific project and interest will be
applied to each such portion at the Bank’s lending rate

prevalent at that time. As of December 31, 1969 _

respect of specific projects under Loan Nos, 1 THA, 6
PAK, and 9 PHI. These amounts carry interest at
6-7/8% per annum and are scheduled to be repaid
during 1969-1984 in conformity with the maturities
fixed for the individual projects.f APPENDIX 1-IV

ORDINARY CAPITAL RESOURCES

OF LOANS CONTINUED

, 1969
States Dollars (Note A )

 

 

 

 

 

Payments Received , Effective Loans Undisbursed Balances of Effective Loans
Y Loans
‘not yet On loans Heid For Loans Held Sold or Agreed ‘ Held Said or Agreed
by Bank Sold by Bank “to be Sold by Bank to be Sold

       
 

         

$2,800,000 $2,800,000

  

$785,000 $32,815,000 $28,081,770

 

 

a = = 6,915,000 285,000 6,885,340 285,000
- - - 2,800,000 a) 2,800,000 5,000,000 — as me _ _ _
100,000 - = = ‘= ~ =
= - - 40,000,000 a 10,000,000 ~
_ - = 5,000,060 _ 4,742,419 = - 10,000,000 - 40,000,006 ‘ ~ 55,289 = 4,944.711 = 1,604,667 . —
38,2447
$31,295,000 $55,289 $785,000 $72,51 2,955 $3,085,000 $64,114,696 $3,085,000 This amount represents the increase in US dollar 3. A soan of US$10,000,000 was approved by the Bank
equivaients (arising from the revaluation of the to Thailand (IFCT) on December 16,1969. Since the
Deutsche Mark as of midnight October 26, 1969) of joan documents were not signed until after the close
loans outstanding and repayable te the Bank in that of the financja) year, this loan is not included in this

currency. statement.REGIONAL:

MEMBERS

Afghanistan
Australia
Cambodia

Ceylon

China, Republic of
Hong Kong

India

indonesia

Japan

Korea, Republic of
Laos

Malaysia

Nepal

New Zealand
Pakistan
Philippines
Singapore
Thaitand
Viet-Nam, Republic of
Western Samoa

Total Regional.

NON-REGIONAL:

The accompanying notes to financial statements (Appendix 1-V1) are an integral part of this statement.

Austria

Belgium

Canada
Denmark
Finland
Germany, Federal Republic of
Italy
Netherlands
Norway
Sweden
Switzerland
United Kingdom
United States

Totai Non-Regional

GRAND TOTAL

Shares

478
8,500
350
852
1,600
800
9,300
2,500
20,000
3,000
42
2,000
216
2,256
3,200
3/500
500
2,000
1200
6

 

62,300

 

500
500
2,500
500
500
3,400
2,000
1,100
500
500
500
3,000
26,000

35,500

 

97,800

ASIAN DEVELOPMENT BANK — .

STATEMENT OF SUBSCRIPTIONS To

SUBSCRIBED
Neen eee ee eee ee
Per Cent
of Total

0.49
8.69
0.36
0.87
1.64
0.82
9.51
2.56
20.45
3.07
0.04
2.04
0.22
2.31
3.27
3.58
0,51
2.04
1,23
9,01

 

63.71

 

0.54
051
2.56
0.52
0.57
3.48
2,04
1,12
0.51
0.51
0,51
3.07
20.45

 

36.29

100.06

Expressed in Thousands of

  
 
  
  
   
  
   
    
  

December

Par Value

$ 4,780
85,000
3,500
8,520
16,000
8,000
93,000
25,000
200,000
30,000
420
20,080
2,160
22,560
32,000
35,000
5,000
20,000
42,000
60

623,000

5,000
5,000
25,000
5,000
5,000
34,000
20,000
11,000.
5,000 ;
5,000
5,000
30,000
200,000

——

355,000

$978,000

eORDINARY CAPITAL RESOU RCES

CAPITAL STOCK AND VOTING POWER

31, 1969
United States Dollars (Note A)

 

 

APPENDIX 1-V

 

 

 
   

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

122,220

PAR VALUE OF PAR VALUE OF VOTING
<CALLABLE SHARES PAID-IN SHARES POWER
en

Subject Subscription instalments Number Per Cent
to Call Not Due Matured of Votes of Tota!
$ 2,390 $ 478 $ 1,912 1,218 0.997
42,500 8,500 34,006 9,240 7.560
1,750 350 1,400 1,030 0.892
4,260 852 3,408 _ 1,592 1.303
8,000 1,600 6,400. 2,340 1.914
4,000 3,000 1,600 1,540 1.260
46,500 9,300 37,200 10,040 8.215
12,500 2,500 16,000 3,240 2.651
100,000 20,000 80,600 20,740 16.968
15,000 i 3,000 12,000 3,740 3.060
210 : 42 168 782 0.640
16,000 2,000 8,000 2,740 2.242
1,080 216 B64 956 0.782
11,280 2,256 9,024 2,996 2.451
16,060 3,200 42,800 3,946 3.224
17,500 3,500 14,000 4,240 3.463
2,500 500 2,000 1,240 1.015
16,060 2,000 8,000 2,740 2.242
6,000 4,200 4800 1,940 1587
30 6 24 746 0.610
311,500 64,500 247,000 77,100 63.082
2,500 500 2,000 4,240 1.015
2,500 sco 2,000 1,240 1.015
42,500 2,500 10,000 3,240 2.651
2,500 506 2,000 1,240 1.015
2,500 $600 2,000 1,240 1.015
47,000 3,400 13,606 4,140 3.387
16,000 2,000 8,000 2,740 2.242
5,500 : 4,t00 4,400 1,840 1.505
2,506 soo 2,000 1,240 1.015
2,500 500 2,000 1,240 1.015
2,500 1,000 1,500 1,240 1.015
15,000 3,008 42,000 3,740 3.060
100,606 20,000 80,000 20,740 16.968
177,500 36,000 144,500 45,120 36.918
$489,000 $100,500 $388,500 100.000APPENDIX 1-V!

ASIAN DEVELOPMENT BANK — ORDINARY CAPITAL RESOURCES

NOTES TO FINANCIAL STATEMENTS

December 31, 1969
Expressed in United States Dollars {Note A)

NOTE A:

Amounts in currencies other than United States dollars have
been translated into United States doliars:

(1) In the cases of Afghanistan, Australia, Austria, Belgium, Canada, Ceylon, Denmark, Fintand, Federa}
Republic of Germany, Hong Kong, India, Italy,
Japan, Malaysia, Nepal, Netherlands, Now Zealand,
Norway, Pakistan, Philippines, Singapore, Sweden,
Thailand and United Kingdom, at par values established by those members with tha International Monetary Fund, and prevailing on Docember 31, 1969;

{2} {n the case of Switzerland, which is not a member of
the International Monetary Fund, at tho rate of
4.37282 Swiss Francs per United States dollar, which
bas been determined by the Bank to be the rate
appropriate for this purpose;

(3) In the cases of Cambodle, Republic of China, {ndonos|a, Rapublic of Korea, Laos, Republic of VietNam ang Western Samoa at tho rates used by these
countedes in making payments of capital subscrptions
to the Bank, and determined by the Bank to be the
rates appropriate for this purpose.

No representation is made that any currency hald by the
Bank Is convertibla Into any other currency only at the rate
or rates specified above.

NOTE B:

In accordance with Article 24, paragraph 2 {i}, the use by
the Bank or by any recipient from the Bank may ba
restricted by the member to making payments tor goods
and services produced and intended for use in its territory,
as follows:

The use of cash in banks and demand obligations in the
currencies’of 17 members aggregating $59,174,113.

in accordance with Article 24, paragraph 2 {ii}, the use by
the Bank or by any recipient from the Bank has besn
restricted by the member to mating payments for goods
and services produced jn its territory, as follows:

The use of cash In banks, demand obligations and jnvestments in the currencies of 2 mermbers aggregating
$21,433,460.

NOTE C:

The origina} authorized capital of the Bank was
$1,000,006,000 in terms of United States doliars of the
weight and fineness in effect on January 37, 1966, tn
November 2966, the Board of Governors approved an
increase of $100,000,GCO in authorized capitat, such
increase to be available for the admission of new members,
As of December 31, 1969, the subscribed capital was
$978,000,000,

The subscribed "paid-in" capital stock, except the subscription of Hong Kong which is payable in four equal instalments, is payable in five equal instalments, each of which is
payable 50% in gold or convertible currencies and 50% in
the currency of the respective member, In lieu of the
portion of any instalment paid or payable in the currency of
@ member, provided such currency is not required by the
Bank for the conduct of its operations, the Bank shall
accept non-negotiable, non-interest-bearing demand obligations in accordance with Article 6, paragraph 3,

All matured jnstalments amounting to $388,500,000 have
been paid as of December 31, 1969 and the balance of
instalments amounting to $100,500,000 is payable as
follows:

{1} $96,500,000 on August 22, 1970;

{2) $1,000,000 in two equal instalments on December
29, in each of the years 1970 and 1977 (representing

 

the subscription of Switzerland which pald the first
instalment on December 29,1967};

{3} $3,000,000 in three equal instalments on March 27
in each of the years 1970 through 1972 (representing
the subscription of Hong Kong which paid the first
instalment on March 27, 1969},

The “callable” capital stock is subject to call only as and
whon required by the Bank to meet Its obligations incurred
on borrowings or on guarantees,

Under the provision of Article 40, the Board of Governors
shall determine annusiy what part of the net Income shall
be allocated, after making provision for reserves,to surplus
and what part, if any, shall be distributed to the members,

Pursuant to tho provislons of Articie 19, paragraph 7 {l), the
Board of Governors authorizad the setting aside of
$14,575,000, roprosanting 10% of the unlmpalred “paid-in”
capital pald by members pursuant to Article G, paragraph 2
{a} os of April 10, 1969, to be used as part of the Consolldated Special Funds of the Bank. The rosoureas so sot aside
shall be allocated to the Multi-Purpose’ Spacial Fund and
shail be transferred to such Fund as and whan required to
finance special oporations of the Bank, As of December 31,
4969 there had been no such transfer to the Multi-Purpose
Spoclal Fund,

NOTE D:

The amount represents payment racsivabla on account of
the reduction in tho foreign oxchangs yalue of the currency
of Cambodia,

NOTE E:

From the interest earnings of the Bank on loans made by it
from its ordinary capital rasources, a commission calculated
at 1% per annum on the outstanding amount of such loans
has been credited to a Special Reserve in accordance with
Article 16, paragraph 1 and Articie 17.

NOTE F;

‘The Board of Diractors approved the Staff Retirement Plan
(the Psan) in December 1968, to be retroactive from
Novamber 24, 1966. Every employee, as defined under the
Plan, shall as a condition of service become a participant as
of the first day of his service, provided that as of such date
he shajl not have reached his normal retirement date. The
Plan applies also to the members of the Board of Directors
who elect to join the Plan. Each particlpant contributes to
the Plan 7% of his remuneration and the Bank contributes
the remainder of the cost and expenses of the Plan.

During the year ended December 31, 1969 the Bank contributed $370,498 to the Plan to cover {ts estimated cost
and expenses at the rate of 14% of participants’ rermuneration.

NOTE G:

The funded debt consists of 7% Deutsche Mark Bonds of
1969 of the face value of DM 60,000,000 which shal? be
redeemed through purchase for the Redemption Fund or at
par through drawings by let, in ten equa! annual instalments
of DM 6,000,060 each, commencing September 1, 1975 and
ending September 7, 7984.

NOTE H:

Undey the provision of Article 40, the net income of the
Bank for the year ended December 31, 1968, namely
$3,482,791, was allocated to the Ordinary Reserve in terms
of the resolution adopted by the Board of Governors at the
Second Annual Meeting. A similar allocation had previously
been made in respect of the net income for the preceding
period,HASKINS & SELLS

Certified Public Accountants

Two Broadway
New York 10004

OPINION OF {NDEPENDENT AUDITORS

Asian Development Bank:

We have examined the following financial statements of Asian Development Bank—Ordinary Capital
Resources as of December 31, 1969 and for the year then ended:

Appendix
Balance Sheet i-l
Comparative Statement of Income and Expenses. i-l
Statement of Cash in Banks and Demand Obligations of Members qi!
Statement of Loans 1-lV
Statement of Subscriptions to Capital Stock and Voting Power 1-V
Notes to Financial Statements I-VI

Our examination was made in accordance with generatiy accepted auditing standards, and accord ingly included
such tests of the accounting records and such other auditing procedures as we considered necessary in the

circumstances,
{n our opinion, such financial statements present fairly the financial position of Asian Development
Bank—Ordinary Capital Resources at December 31, 1969 and the results of its related operations for the year

then ended, in conformity with generally accepted accounting principles applied ona basis consistent with that

of the preceding year.

HASKINS & SELLS

January 23, 1970

 

71ASSETS

CASH IN BANKS ,

INVESTMENTS
Government obligations—amortized cost

NOTES OF CONTRIBUTOR
Non-negotiable, non-interest-bearing notes

EFFECTIVE LOANS (See Appendix 1-C)

RESOURCES AVAILABLE
Contributed Resources
Amounts made available
Less amounts drawn

Set-aside Resources {Note 5 {c)]
Accrued Resources {Note 5 (d}}
Amounts transferred
Less amounts drawn
OTHER ASSETS

TOTAL

LIABILITIES, UNEXPENDED BALANCES AND CAPITAL

ACCOUNTS PAYABLE

 

ASIAN DEVELOPMENT BANK —

Technical Assistance
Special Fund (Note 3)

$2,072,206
763,037

 

UNDiSBURSED BALANCE OF EFFECTIVE LOANS {See Appendix 1-C}

UNEXPENDED BALANCES AND CAPITAL
Contributed Resources
Contributions committed
Less amounts not yet made available

Amounts made available

Set-aside Resources (Note 5 (c}]
Capita) authorized to be set aside
Less amounts not yet transferred

Amounts transferred

Accrued Resources [Note 5 {d}]
Amounts credited

Less excess of expenses over income
To December 31, 1968
For the year ended December 31, 1969

TOTAL

$2,240,206
168,000

2,072,208

241,529
408,392

649,923

The accompanying notes to financial statements (Appendix 1-L) are an integral part of this statement.

@ One contribution is repayable to the contributor as specified in Note 4 (a).

   
  
   

BALANCE

December

Expressed in United

$ 95,641

113,013

1,309,169

6,338

$1,484,761

$ 61,876

1,422,285

$1,484,165States Dollars (Note 2}

PECIAL FUNDS RESOURCES (Note 1)

 

Agricultural
Special Fund (Note 4)

Multi-Purpose
Special Fund (Note 5}

§ APPENDIX 1-A

 

Total

 

 

$ 24,868
49,900,000
990,000
$23,104,972
0,000,000 3,104,972
421
$24,019,961
$ —
934,874
$23,104,972
23,104,972
(115)
(115) 23,105,087

$24,019,951

 

 

$ —

26,000,000

2,400,000
$30,000,000

26,000,000 16,000,000
40

ae 40

$32,400,040

$ _~

2,400,000
$45,000,000
15,000,000
30,000,000
14,575,000
14,575,000
40

= 30,000,040

$32,400,040

$55,177,178
40,763,037

 

40

 

$70,345,178
15,168,000

55,177,178

14,575,000
14,575,000

40

 

241,529
408,277

649,806

 

$ 80,509
113,013

39,900,000
3,390,000

44,414,144

40
6,459

$57,904,462

$ 61,376
3,314,874

54,527,412

$57,904,162

 

 

73APPENDIX 1-B

ASIAN DEVELOPMENT BANK — SPECIAL FUNDS RESOURCES (Note 1)

COMPARATIVE STATEMENT OF INCOME AND EXPENSES°

For the Period Ended December 31, 1968° and the Year Ended December 31, 1969

Expressed in United States Dollars (Note 2)

INCOME
From investments
From loans
interest
Service fee

GROSS INCOME

Deduct service fee allocated to Accrued
Resources in the Multi-Purpose Special Fund

UNALLOCATED GROSS INCOME

EXPENSES
Internal administrative expenses of the Bank
Project appraisal and other field missions—
Consultants

Other internal administrative expenses
Consuitants—headquarters
Library materials
Depository banks charges

Total
Services to member countries
Project preparation missions and other

loan-related technical assistance—
Consultants

Advisory missions and other technical assistance—
Consuftants

Total

GROSS EXPENSES

EXCESS OF EXPENSES OVER INCOME

Technicai Assistance

1967-1968

$ 132

132

132

118,102

31,708
§,232
51

162,093

12,272

77,296
89,568

241,861

$241,529

Special Fund

1989

$ 4,905

 

4,905

4,905

151,929

41,651
3,621
98

497,360

27,919

188,078
215,997

 

413,297

$408,392

The accompanying notes to financial statements (Appendix 1-L) are an integral part of this statement.
4 tn 1968 there were no income or expenses for the Agricultural Special Fund,
b From June 23, 1967 (date of first contribution) to December 31, 1968,

74

 

Agricultural
Special Fund

1969

121
40

161

 

—40
121

 

LL

 

a

$ (175)6

nsASIAN DEVELOPMENT BANK —

STATEMENT

December
Expressed in United

Loan Date of Loan

Member, Purpose and Borrower No, Agreement Maturities
CEYLON )
Agricuiture—Ceyion 16CEY (SF} Nov. 8'69 1976-1994
INDONESIA
Agriculture—! ndonesia 12 INO {SF} Jul 2°69 1976-1993
Agricuiture—I ndonesia 45 (NO (SF) Oct, 24°69 1976-1994
PHILIPPINES
Agriculture—Philippines 19 PHI {SF) . Nov. 21°69 7975-1994
WESTERN SAMOA
Airport and Road—Western Samoa 25 SAM (SF} Dec, 17'69 1980-1999

TOTAL
The accompanying notes to financiat statements (Appendix 1-L) are an integral part of this statement.

a A loan of US$6,010,000 was approved by the Bank to Nepal on December 18, 1969. Since the joan documents
were not signed until after the close of the financial year this loan is not Included in this statement.

i
5SPECIAL FUNDS RESOURCES (Note 1)

OF LOANS

31, 1969

States Dollars (Note 2)

Interest Rate
{including
service fee}

3%

1%

 

 

> APPENDIX 1-C

 

Loans Undisbursed

Principal Not Yet Balances of
Amount Effective Effective Loans Effective Loans

$ 7,705,000 $ 7,705,000 $ ~ $ 
990,000 a) 990,000 914,874

2,400,000 2,400,000 - 
2,500,000 2,500,000 = =

2,400,000 - 2,400,000 2,400,000

$15,995,000° . $12,605,000 $3,390,000 $3,314,874

77TECHNICAL ASSIST ANCE SPECIAL FUND {Note 3}
Canada
Denmark
Finland
Germany, Federai Republic of
Japan
New Zealand
United Kingdom
United States

TOTAL

AGRICULTURAL SPECIAL FUND (Note 4}
Denmark
Japan
Netherlands

TOTAL

MULTI-PURPOSE SPECIAL FUND {Note 5)
Canada
Japan

TOTAL

GRAND TOTAL

The accompanying notes to financial statements (Appendix 1-L} are an integral part of this statement.

ASIAN DEVELOPMENT BANK—

STATEMENT OF 
December

Expressed in United

Contributions
Committed

$ 100,000
300,000
8,178
43,151
313,982
168,000
56,895
1,250,000

2,240,206
2,000,000

20,000,000
1,104,972

 

23,104,972

 

25,000,000
20,000,000

45,000,000

$70,345,178SPECIAL FUNDS RESOURCES (Note 1)

CONTRIBUTED RESOURCES

31,1969
* States Dollars (Note 2)

‘Amounts Not Amounts
Yet Made Made
Available Available

_ $ 100,000
-_ 300,000
— 8,178
- 43,151
- 313,982
168,000 =
- 56,895
= 1,250,000

 

 

168,000 2,072,206

- 2,000,000 - 20,000,000
om 1,104,972

 

_ 23,104,972

15,000,000 ‘ 10,000,000
’ = 26,000,000

 

 

18,000,000 30,600,000

$15,168,000 $55,177,178

Amounts
Drawn

$ 100,000
22,986
43,151

313,982
44,526
238,392

 

763,037

26,000,000

20,000,000
20,000,000
20,000,000

$40,763,037

APPENDIX 1-D

Resources
Available for
Drawing

277,014
8,178

12,369
1,014,608

1,309,163

2,000,000

1,104,872

 

3,104,972

10,000,000

10,000,000

$14,414,141

79APPENDIX 1-E 23

 

ASIAN DEVELOPMENT BANK — SPECIAL FUNDS RESOURCES (Note 1}

STATEMENT OF SET-ASIDE RESOURCES

December 31, 1969
Expressed in United States Dolfars (Note 2)

Capital Authorized Amounts Not Amounts Amounts
to be Set-aside Yet Transferred Transferred Drawn
CAPITAL [Note 5 (c}] $14,575,000 $14,575,000 $ = $ =

The accompanying notes to financial statements (Appendix 1-L) are an Integral part of this statement.

Resources Available
for DrawingAPPENDIX 1-F

 

ASIAN DEVELOPMENT BANK — SPECIAL FUNDS RESOURCES (Note 1)

STATEMENT OF ACCRUED RESOURCES

December 31, 1969
Expressed in United States Dollars {Note 2}

On

Amounts Credited |

From Contributed © From Set-aside Amounts Amounts Resources Available
Resources Resources Transferred Drawn for Drawing
a
SERVICE FEE $40 $- $40 $- $40
NET INCOME = = _ = I
TOTAL $40 $- $40 g$o- $40

The accompanying notes to financial statements (Appendix 1-L) are an integral part of this statement.

81ASIAN DEVELOPMENT BANK —
TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE
BALANCE

December

Expressed in United

Canada Denmark Finland

ASSETS
CASH IN BANKS $ 4,261 $ 15,877 $

INVESTMENTS
Government obligations-amortized cost

RESOURCES AVAILABLE
Contributed Resources (Sea Appendix 1-D} cad 277,014 8,178
OTHER ASSETS = 333
TOTAL $ 4,261 $293,224 $8,178

LIABILITIES AND UNEXPENDED BALANCES
ACCOUNTS PAYABLE $ = $ 14,424 $8,178

UNEXPENDED BALANCES
Contributed Resources

Amounts made available (See Appendix 1—D) 100,000 300,000 8,178
Less excess of expenses over income
To December 31, 1968 21,580 For the year ended December 31, 1969 74,159 21,200 8,178
95,739 21,200 8,178

TOTAL $ 4,261 $293,224 $8,178

The accompanying notes to financial statements (Appendix 1-L) are an integral part of this statement,
@ Of this amount $1,000,000 is to be used for carrying out the Regional Transport Survey.APPENDIX 1-G

  
  
 
   
  
    
 
     
 

SPECIAL FUNDS RESOURCES (Note 1}

SPECIAL FUND {Note 3}
SHEET

31, 1969
States Dollars (Note 2}

 

 

Federal Republic United United
of Germany Japan New Zealand Kingdom . States Totat

 

 

\

$19,164 S$ 2,666 $ cu s = $ 13,673 $ 55,644

   

 

   
 

 

113,013 _ - - _ 113,013
= 12,369 1,011,608 1,309,169

= - 1,325 6,338

$119,630 - $12,369 $1,026,606 $1,484,161
$ 12,517 $ = $12,347 S$ 14,410 $ 61,876
313,982 - 56,895 4,250,000 2,072,206
59,088 - 21,172 126,298 241,529
147,781 = 35,701 141,506 408,392
206,869 = 56,873 237,804 649,921
$118,630 $ pa $12,369 $1,026,606 $1,484,161

 

 

83ASIAN DEVELOPMENT BANK —

   
  
  
 
    
  
   
    
   
 
   
   

AGRICULTURAL
BALANCE

December

Expressed in United

Denmark

ASSETS
CASH IN BANKS ’

NOTES OF CONTRIBUTOR
Non-negotiable, non-interest-bearing notes

EFFECTIVE LOANS (See Appendix 1-C}

RESOURCES AVAILABLE
Contributed Resources {See Appendix 1-D} 2,000,000

OTHER ASSETS

 

TOTAL $2,060,000

LIABILITIES AND UNE XPENDEO BALANCES
UNDISBURSED BALANCE OF EFFECTIVE LOANS (See Appendix 1-C)

UNEXPENDED BALANCES
Contributed Resources>
Amounts made avaijable {See Appendix 1-D} . 2,000,000

Add excess of income over expenses
For the year ended December 31, 1969 —
2,000,000

  
 

 

 

TOTAL $2,000,000

   

 

 

The accompanying notes to financial statements (Appendix 1-L) are an integral part of this statement.

a The unafiocated amount wil! be atlocated to specific b One contribution js repayable to the contriputer as
contributions as and wher procurement contracts have specified in Note 4 {a}.
been awarded to firms in the country of the contributor
whose contripution may be used to finance the loan in
accordance with the contribution agreement. The loan
. may (alse be financed from the Multi-Purpose Speciat
und.See

APPENDIX 1-H

SPECIAL FUNDS RESOU RCES (Note 1}

SPECIAL FUND (Note 4)

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

SHEET
31, 1969
States Dollars (Note 2)
—_ ———— ——
Japan Netherlands Unallocated? Total
$ 24868 $ - $ 24,868
19,900,006 _— 49,900,C00
240,060 _ $750,000 990,000
= 4,104,972 3,404,972
121 = 124
ie te tA ———
$20,164,989 $1,104,972 $756,000 $24,019,961
a AR
$ 164,874 : $ - $750,000 $ 914,874
20,060,000 1,104,372 s 23,104,972
—_115. = . 4s
20,000,315. 4,104,972 co sees 23,105,087
$20,164,989 $1,104,972 . $750,000 $24,019,961

 

 

 

85ASSETS .
NOTES GF CONTRIBUTOR
Non-negotiable, non-interest- bearing notes
EFFECTIVE LOANS (See Appendix 1-C)
RESOURCES AVAILABLE
Contributed Resources (See Appendix 1-D}
Set-aside Resources [Note 5 {c)]
Accrued Resources [Note 5 {d)]}
Arnounts transferred
Less amounts drawn

TOTAL

LIABILITIES, UNEXPENDED BALANCES AND CAPITAL

UNDISBURSED BALANCE OF EFFECTIVE LOANS (See Appendix 1-C)

UNE XPENDED BALANCES AND CAPITAL
Contributed Resources
Amounts made available (See Appendix 1-D}
Set-aside Resources [Note 5 {c}]
Capital authorized to be set aside
Less amounts not yet transferred

Amounts transferred

Accrued Resources [Note 5 (d}]

Amounts credited

TOTAL

The accompanying notes to financial statements (Appendix 1-L) are an integral part of this statement.

©

See 4 in Appendix 1-H,

b The unallocated amount will be allocated to specific
resources as and when procurement contracts have been
awarded. The amount allocated to Contrributed Resources will also be aliocated to specific contriputions

36

 

   
  
  
  
   
    
  
 
   

ASIAN DEVELOPMENT BANK _
MULTI-PURPOSE

‘BALANCE

December
Expressed in United

Contributed Resources
Pac ee

Canada Japan
$ = $20,000,000
10,000,000
$10,000,000 $20,000,080
}
$ - $ 4
10,000,000 20,000,000
$10,000,000 $20,006,000

when such procurement contract has been awarded to
firms in the country of the contributor whose contribution may be used to finance the toan in accordance with
the contribution agreement.

|
1
|APPENDIX 1
-ECIAL FUNDS RESOURCES (Note 1)

Unatlocated>

  

Set-Aside Resources Accrued Resources

$20,000,000
$ _ 2 $2,400,000 ‘ 2,400,000

40,000,060

$ 40 $2,400,000 $32,400,040

$ = $2,400,000 $ 2,400,000

$30,060,000

44,575,000

$14,575,000
14,575,000

14,575,000
$ -_

 

 

$ 40 30,000,040

40

$2,400,000 $32,400,040

   

 

87ASIAN DEVELOPMENT BANK —

TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE
STATEMENT OF INCOME

For the year ended

Expressed in United

 

INCOME
From investments

EXPENSES
Internal acministrative expenses of the Bank
Project appraisal and other field missions—
Consultants

Other internai administrative expenses
Consul tants—headquarters
Library materials
Depository banks charges

Total

Services to member countries
Project preparation missions and other
loan-related technical assistance—
Consultants

Advisory missions and other technicat assistence—
Consultants

Total

GROSS EXPENSES

EXCESS OF EXPENSES OVER INCOME

 

The accompanying notes to financial statements (Appendix 1-L) are an integral part of this statement.

 

 

      
 

 

 

Canada Denmark
$ _ $

44,501
19
14,520
27,435

32,204 21,200

59,639 21,200

21,200

$74,159 $21,200E APPENDIX 1-3

SPECIAL FUNDS RESOURCES (Note 1)
SPECIAL FUND
‘AND EXPENSES

‘December 31, 1969
States Dotiars {Note 2}

 
 

Federal
é Republic of .
Finjand Germany Japan United Kingdom United States Total

151,923

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

- - 41,281 370 - 41,651
- 2,294 - - 1,327 3,621
- _ 80 — - 99
8,178 2,639 44,661 34812 92,480 197,300
ass = = — 484 27,919
= 7,228 108,025 sso 18,532 188,078
- 7,228 108,025 sao 19,016 215,997
8,178 9,867 152,686 36,701 141,506 413,297

$174,506

  

$147,781

83ASIAN DEVELOPMENT BANK — SPECIAL FUNDS RESOURCES (Note 1)

TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE SPECIAL FUND

STATEMENT OF EXPENSES BY PROJECTS AND PROGRAMS

For the Year Ended December 31, 1969
Expressed in United States Dollars (Note 2)

INTERNAL ADMINISTRATIVE EXPENSES OF THE BANK

Project appraisal and other field missions—
Consultants

Ceylon Deep-sea Fisheries Development
Fisheries Port
Walawe Development

China Deep-sea Fisheries Development
North-South Freeway
Hualien Harbor Development

Indonesia Oil Palm Deveiapment

Korea Korea Cold Storage Piant
Transportation and Stevedoring
E-Caprolactam Plant

Malaysia Kuching Port

Nepal Air Transport

Philippines industrial Survey

Thailand Thai Newsprint

Total

Other internal administrative expenses

Consultants—headquarters
Preparatory work for Regional
Transport Survey

Lectures and seminars—
Econdmic evaluation of projects

Library materials

Depositary banks charges

Total

TOTAL INTERNAL ADMINISTRATIVE EXPENSES OF THE BANK- (Forward)

 

 

 

 

 

Contributors Amounts
Canada $ 690
United States 5,528
United Kingdom 24,742
Canada $ 426
Japan 49 475
Germany, Federal

Republic of 345
United States 7,290 7,635
United States 5,166
United Kingdom
Canada 4,336
Japan 3,251
United States 870
Canada 12,049
United States 3,497
United States
United States
Finland
Japan 41,281
United Kingdom 370
Germany, Federal

Republic of 2,294
United States 4,327
Japan 80
Canada 19

 

 

 

 

The accompanying notes to financial statements (Appendix 1-L) are an integral part of this statement.

 

$ 17,960

13,276
22,700

5,457

45,546

18,702
50,110
8,178

151,928

 

41,651

3,621

9g

45,371

$197,306Contributors

TOTAL iNTERNAL ADMINISTRATIVE EXPENSES OF THE BANK-—(Forward)

SERVICES TO MEMBER COUNTRIES,

Project preparation and other
loan-related technical assistance—
Consultants

Philippines ’ Fisheries Port

Advisory missions and other
technical assistance—

Consultants
Jndonesia Advisors to Ministry of
Agriculture
Rural Credit Survey
Korea Agricultural and Fishery

Development Corporation

Laos Integrated Development of
Vientiane Piain

Nepal Agricultural Development
Bank of Nepal
Philippines Water Management
VietNam,
Republic of Development Financing

Institution

Regional Countries Regional Transport Survey

Study of Southeast Asian
Economy in the Seventies

 

Total

 

TOTAL SERVICES TO MEMBER COUNTRIES

Canada
United States

Japan
United Kingdom
United States

Japan
Japan

Germany, Federal
Republic of
Denmark ~

Japan
United States

Canada
United States

Denmark
Japan

Japan

 

 

GROSS EXPENSES

S$ 889
732

 

14,424
12,188

 

APPENDIX 1-K

 

 

 

CONTINUED
Amounts
$197,300
$27,435
484 27,939
26,230
1,624 27,851
6,241
41,685
7,228
6,776 14,004
42,624
8,065 50,689
32,204
9,735 41,939
26,612
9,057 35,669
188,078
215,997
$413,297

 

 

 

 

91APPENDIX 1-LES=

ASIAN DEVELOPMENT BANK —SPECIAL FUNDS RESOURCES (Note 1)

NOTES TO FINANCIAL STATEMENTS

December 31, 1969

NOTE 1:

In 1967 the Board of Directors, pending the adoption of
rules and regulations governing the administration and use of
Special Funds, established a consolidated account for the
administration of resources available under Article 19, paragraph 1 (ii) to provide technical advice and assistance serving
the purposes and coming within the functions of the Bank.

On September 17, 1968 the Board of Directors adopted the
Special Funds Rules and Regulations for the administration
of the Bank’s Special Funds Resources, pursuant to Article
19, paragraph 4. These Rules and Regulations provide for an
Agricultural Special Fund, a Technical Assistance Special
Fund, & Multi-Purpose Special Fund and such other special
Fund or Funds as the Bank might establish or accept, Contributions made by contributors before the adoption of the
Special Funds Rules and Regulations and thereafter have
been accepted in terms of Article 19, paragraph 1 (ii) and
have been allocated to the relevant Special Fund in accordance with the Special Funds Rules and Regulations,

NOTE 2:

Amounts in the currencies of Canada, Denmark, Finland,
Federal Republic of Germany, Japan, Netherlands, New
Zealand and the United Kingdom have been translated into
United States dollars at par values established by these contributors with the International Monetary Fund, and prevailing on December 31, 1969. No representation is made
that any of these currencies is convertible into any other
currency only at the rate or rates specified herein.

NOTE 3:

The cotributed resources in the Technical Assistance Special
Fund consist of the fojlowing (in alphabetical order):

(a) The Government of Canada, in November 1968, made
available to the Bank a grant in Canadian dollars
equivalent to US$100,000 for procurement of
Canadian goods and services, to be utilized by the
Bank for technical assistance activities,

(b}) The Government of Denmark, in January 1969, made
available to the Bank a grant equivalent to Danish
Kroner 2,250,000{US$300,000) to be used to finance
the employment of consultants, specialists, services
and specialized equipment needed to make technical
assistance available to Bank members, Of the Danish
Kroner 2,250,000 only 75% or Danish Kroner
1,687,500 need be applied for the acquisition of such
facilities fromm Denmark.

{c} The Government of Finland, in January 1969,
informed the Bank that it is prepared to consider
requests by the Bank for technical assistance in the
form of services of Finnish technical experts, or
requests to finance specific studies by consulting
engineering firms in areas of recognized Finnish com
petence or of such other Finnish facilities as might be
agreed from time to time.

(a) The Federal Republic of Germany offered to finance
in 1968 the services of German consultants and

 

{e)

{f)

{g}

{h)

 

specialists to be utilized by the Bank for technical
assistance, and to enable the Bank to plan its requests,
indicated that consideration may be given to requests
entailing disbursements of up to DM 160,000
(US$43,716) in the calendar year 1968, The parties
agreed that the techicat assistance arranged in 1968
would be renewed for the calendar year 1969 on
similar terms and conditions,

The Government of Japan, in June 1969, made a
contribution, as a grant, of a sum of 72,000,000 yen
(US$200,000} in cash, to be used by the Bank for
procurement of services of Japanese consultants and
specialists for technical assistance operations and for
provision of library materials. The above contribution
was in addition to the contribution of 36,000,000 yen
{JS$100,000) made in March 1968 for the same
purpose,

The contribution of the Government of Japan, offered
in July #968, up to the amount of 71,260,000 yen
(US$31,278}, to provide for Japanese expert services
to be used by the Bank for technical assistance, was
available up to March 31, 1969. The Government of
Japan, however, agreed to finance the continuation of
expert services in respect of operations started before
March 31, 1969.

The Government of New Zealand, in November 1969,
made available to the Bank a grant of NZ$150,000
(US$168,000) to finance the procurement of the
services of New Zealand consultants and specialists for
the widest possible range of feasibility and preinvestment studies, The grant would be available to
the Bank in amounts of up to NZ$75,000 in each of
the two financial years (ending March) 1970/1971 and
4971/1972 or at any time thereafter.

The United Kingdom has declared its willingness to
consider requests for the financing of British technical
services and assistance to be utilized by the Bank, and
to enable the Bank to plan its requests, has indicated
an amount of US$250,G00 up to which such requests
would be met during the British financial year ended
March 31, 1969, The parties have agreed to extend the
availability of the technical services and assistance up
to March 31, 1970.

The United States agreed on June 23, 1967 to make
available as a grant, for procurement in the United
States, a technical assistance contribution of up to
US$250,060, The contribution is made by means of
periodic transfer of funds to the Bank as needed, and
is utilized for specific kinds of technical assistance
ebtigations incurred by it. The funds were originally
made available to meet obligations incurred through
December 31, 1968 unless the parties agreed to extend
this date. It has been agreed to extend it to December
31, 1969 for obligation of still uncommitted funds,

The United States agreed further on May 14, 1969
to make available as a grant, for procurement of services from the United States, a technical assistance

A

 

aorthD

©= APPENDIX 1-L

CONTINUED

ee i

contribution of up to US$1,000,000 for carrying out
the Regional Transport Survey. The United States
contribution for the Survey will be made by means
of a Letter of Commiitment issued to a United States
commercial bank against which the Bank may draw
funds to meet expenditures for the Survey. This
Letter of Commitment will be issued when the
Board of Directors of the Bank, with appropriate
United States participation, has approved the ‘final
scope of work to be undertaken for the Survey and
the cost of the Survey and when the Bank has
arranged that ali funds necessary to complete the
Survey other than the United States contribution
will be made available.

As to those countries who have agreed to consider specific
requests for financing (see paragraphs c, d and g of this
Note}, the amounts shown in the financial statements as
contributed resources are based on the specific requests
approved through December 31, 1969.

NOTE 4:

The contributed resources in the Agricultural Special Fund
consist of the following (in alphabetical order}:

{a}

{b}

(c}

The Government of Denmark, on April 1, 1969, made
a contribution of 15,000,000 Kroner (US$2,000,000)},
The contribution, to be drawn as required from the
official depositor y of the Bank in Denmark, is interestfree and is repayable in regular half-yearly instalments
commencing in Apri} 1976 and extending t0 October
4993. it is for use by the Bank for making loans and
for providing reimbursable technical assistance; and,
except as shall otherwise be agreed between the contracting parties, for procurement of goods and services
with a high Danish content.

The Government of Japan, in December 1968, made a
contribution of 7,200,000,000 yen (US$20,000,000)
for financing special operations of the Bank relating to
agricultural development including forestry, fisheries
and agriculturaily related industries, The contribution
is in the form of non-negotiable, non-interest-bearing
notes deposited with the official depository of the
Bank in Japan and payable to the Bank at par value.
The contribution is not available for providing nonreimbursable technical assistance; and, except as shall
be otherwise agreed between the Contribtor and the
Bank, it shali be used only for procurement in Japan
of goods produced in or services supplied from Japan,
The repayments and income of the contribution may
be used for procurement in the territories of members
of the Bank of goods and services produced in such
territories.

The Government of Netherlands, on May 7, 1969,
made a contribution of 4,000,000 guilders
{US$1,104,972} to be paid to the Bank in such
amounts as requested by it from time to time, for the
procurement in the Bank's special operations, other
than for providing non-reimbursable technical assistance, of goods and services a) from the Netherlands, b) from the territories of developing member

countries, and c} from developed countries which
have made contributions to any Special Fund with
Procurement conditions not less liberal than those
governing this contribution,

NOTE 5:

The resources in the Multi-Purpose Special Fund consist of
the following (in alphabetical order of the contributors) ;

ta}

(b}

fc}

(d)

The Government of Canada, in December 1968,
agreed to contribute Canadian dollars equivalent to
US$25,000,000 to be available by equal instalments in
each of the five Canadian fiscal years beginning April
1, 1968. This contribution is interest-free and js to be
used for procurement of equipment, services and
supplies with a Canadian content as defined from time
to time by the Contributor, In the case of the subsequent use of repayments and accruals received by the
Bank and derived from this contribution, the provisions respecting procurement from Canadian sources
shall not apply. As of December 31, 1969, the equivalent of US$10,000,000 is available to the Bank,

The Government of Japan, in November 1969, made a
contribution of 7,200,000,000 yen (US$20,000,000)
for financing special operations of the Bank in important sectors, giving due regard to agriculture, The
contribution is in the form of non-negotiable, noninterest-bearing notes deposited with the official
depository of the Bank in Japan and payable to the
Bank at par value. The contribution may be used for
procurement of goods and services in the territories of
developed member countries contributing to the Consolidated Special Funds {other than the Technical!
Assistance Special} Fund) or of developing member
countries, it is, however, not available for providing
non-reimbursable technical assistance. The repayments
and income of the contribution may be used for
procurement in the territories of members of the Bank,
of goods and services produced in such territories.

Pursuant to the provisions of Article 19, paragraph 1
{i), the Board of Governors authorized the -settingaside of USS14,575,000, representing 10% of the
unimpaired “paid-in” capital paid by members pursuant to Article 6, paragraph 2 (a) as of April 10,
1969, to be used as part of the Consolidated Special
Funds of the Bank. The resources so set aside shall be
allocated to the Multi-Purpose Special Fund and shail
be transferred to such Fund as and when requirec to
finance special operations of the Bank. As of
December 31, 1969 there had been no such transfer to
the Muiti-Purpose Special Fund.

The term “accrued resources’ refers to the resources
derived from the service fee charged by the Bank in its
special operations for the purpose of Section 7.01 of
the Special Funds Rules and Regulations and to other
income of the Bank derived from Special Funds
resources credited, held and ad. istered by the Bank
in the Multi-Purpose Special Fund pursuant to Section
5.03 of the Rules and Regulations,

 

 

 

93HASKINS & SELLS

Certified Public Accountants

Two Broadway
New York 10004

OPINION OF INDEPENDENT AUDITORS

Asian Development Bank:

We have examined the following financial statemants of Asian Development Bank—Special Funds
Resources as of December 31, 1969 and for the year then ended:

Appendix

Balance Sheet 1h
Comparative Statement of income and Expenses 1-B
Statement of Loans 1-¢
Statement of Contributed Resources i-D
Statement of Set-Aside Resources 1-E
Statement of Accrued Resources 4oF
Technical Assistance Special Fund Batance Sheet 1+G
Agricultural Special Fund Balance Sheet 1-H
Muiti-Purpose Special Fund Balance Sheet i-l
Technical Assistance Special Fund Statement of Income and Expenses 1-J
Technicat Assistance Special Fund Statement of Expenses

by Projects and Programs 4K
Notes to Financial Statements 1—L

Our examination was made in accordance with generally accepted auditing standards, and accordingly
included such tests of the accounting records and such other auditing procedures as we considered necessary
in the circumstances,

In our opinion, such financial staternents present fairly the financial position of Asian Development
Bank—Special Funds Resources at December 31, 1969 and the results of its related operations for the year
then ended, in conformity with generally accepted accounting principles applied on a basis consistent with
that of the preceding period.

HASKINS & SELLS

January 23, 1970SUMMARY OF ADMINISTRATIVE BUDGET
ADMINISTRATIVE BUDGET PART |
INTERNAL ADMINISTRATIVE EXPENSES

2 APPENDIX 2

a

Financial Year

 

Financial Year

 

1969 1970
Budget Actual Budget

IT,
1. BOARD OF GOVERNORS $ 70,000 $ 64,892 $ 72,000
fi. BOARD OF DIRECTORS 868,000 724,943 845,700
Sataries . 450,000 440,517 500,000
Benefits 110,000 84,772 96,700
‘Travel 250,000 150,897 200,000
Staff Services 58,000 48,763 49,000
Ih, STAFF 4,526,000 4,186,610 5,252,000
Salaries 2,498,006 2,351,370 3,060,400
Benefits 676,000 658,262 883,000
Travel 286,0007 779,356 813,600
Consultants 420,000 352,773" 445,000
Representation 46,0007 44,849 50,000
IV. OTHER ADMINISTRATIVE EXPENSES 949,500 873,446 1,113,700
Communications 192,0007 163,686 247,400
Office Occupancy 63,000 63,860 420,400
Pubfications and Printing 412,000° 108,7547 121,700

Expendable Supplies 132,000 129,168 177,800 age
Furniture and Equipment 162,500% 160,476 140,100
Fees and Compensation 1482,0007 154,613 194,560
Miscellaneous 100,000? 92,889" 88,000
Special Activity-EXPO'70 - 8 29,800
Vv. CONTINGENCY 70,600 = 30,000
TOTAL 2 $6,483,500 $5,849,897 $7,363,400

i A

includes the arnount of $92 from Technical Assistance Specia

DAW E

and Printing” and “Fees and Compensation”, respectively.

! Fund.

transfers of amounts among these items were made during the course of 1969.
Transfers of amounts among these items were made during the course of 1963.
includes the amount of $193,579 from Technical Assistance Specia} Fund,
Includes the amount of $3,621 from Technical Assistance Special Fund.

The amounts of $8,226 and $6,500 were disbursed for this purpose during the course of 196

9 and charged to ‘Publications

9sSUMMARY OF

ADMINISTRATIVE

SERVICES To

it ERED HRA TR LETTER T,

   
  
 
    
  

Financial Year 1969

   

Commitments Disbursements

Approved

 

   

Budget Actual

Project Preparation and Other Loan-Related

 

Technical Assistance $ 734,000 $ 731,000" $ 694,162*
Advisory Missions 1,493,000 . ° 00,0007 472,328°
Regional Services 1,250,000 521,000°*3 491,084°*

a. Regional Transport Survey 706,000 450,000 426,216

b. Other Regional Services §50,0007 71,000 64,868

TOTAL $3,477,000 $1,752,000 $1,657,574

 

Transfers of amounts among these were made during the course of 1969.

This amount inciudes commitments for: Southeast Asian Economy in the 1970's ($250,000)
and Asian Vegetable Research and Deveiopment Center ($300,000).

includes disbursements for the Asian Agricultural Survey Follow-up Seminar, Regional Conference of Development Banks of Asia
and Southeast Asian Economy in the 1970's.

includes the amount of $27,919 from Technica! Assistance Special Fund.

Includes the amount of $152,405 from Technical Assistance Special Fund.

Includes the amount of $35,669 from Technical Assistance Special Fund.

wo Ok

ansAPPENDIX 2

ADMINISTRATIVE BUDGET CONTINUED

BUDGET PART II

MEMBER COUNTRIES

    
   
  
   
   
 
   

Outstanding Financial Year 1970 Budget

 

Commitments
Approved as of New Commitments
December 31, 1969 {Estimated} Disbursements

$ 410,178 $1,450,000 $ 776,400
1,556,006 850,000 : 1,137,300
832,439 1,900,000 4,382,000
297,147 4,600,000 309,000
535,282 306,000 482,000

$2,798,623 $4,200,000 $3,295,700

 

 

 

97RESOLUTIONS OF BOARD OF GOVERNORS DURING 1969*

Resolution ee
Number Subject
23 dmission of Hong Kong to Membership in the Asian Development Bank
24 Financial Statements and Auditors’ Reports
25 Allocation of Net income
26 Action to Set Aside Capital for Special Funds
27 Board of Directors: Size and Composition . =
28 Procedures for the Election of Directors at the Second Annual Meeting
29 Appreciation
30

Amendment of Sections 5 and 7 (B) {a} of the By-Laws of the Bank

*The texts of Resolution Nos.

23—29 are available In the Proceedings of the Second
Annual Meeting.

 

car wnn rN EA STREETS TP RCEDE INTE TT EEE TOT

SSR RAEN IESAPPENDIX 4

CHANNELS OF COMMUNICATION

 

 

COUNTRY CHANNEL COUNTRY CHANNEL
Afghanistan Ministry of Planning Laos National Bank of Laos
Kabul Vientiane
Get ane noe Aigiven Embasy Malaysia Secretary to the Treasury
YO, Japa The Treasury
Australia Secretary Kuala Lumpur
Commonweatth ‘Treasury Nepal Secretary |
Ministry of Finance
Austria Bundesministerium fuer Finanzen Kathmandu t
Wien Netherlands Ministerie van Financien
Belgium Minister of Finance The Hague .
Srussels New Zealand Secretary of External Affairs
Cambodia National Bank of Cambodia Wellington
Phnom-Penh ce: The Secretary to the Treasury
Canads Department of Finance Wellington, New Zealand
Ottawe Norway Royal Ministry of Commerce and
epi Shipping
Ceyion Permanent Secretary to the Ministry =
of Planning and Economic Affairs oar ign Exchange Department
Colombo
‘i Pakistan Ministry of Finance
China, Republic of Governor 5
The Central Bank of China Governeunt et nexisan
Taipei ‘
Denmark Ministry for Foreign Affairs Philippines ae tment of Foreign Affairs
Copenhagen ne
2 ssi reRS, Singapore Permanent Secretary
Fintand Ministry for Foreign Affairs (Economic Development)
Helsinki Ministry of Finance
Germany, Federal Bundesministerium fuer Wirtschaft Singapore
Republic of Bonn Sweden Sveriges Riksbank
Hong Kong The Financial Secretary Helgeandshotmen
c/o Colonial Secretariat Stockholm
Hong Kong Switzerland Départment fédéral de 1’économie
india Secretary to the Government of Indie publique
Ministry of Finance Division du Commerce
Department of Economic Affairs Palais fédéral
New Delhi Berne
indonesia Department of Finance Thailand Ministry of Finance
Djakerta Bangkok
Italy Direzione Generale del Tesoro United Kingdom Ministry of Overseas Development
LRELE. Lenden
Ministero del Tesoro United States Secretary of the Treasury
Rome
Washington, D.C.
Japan Minister of Finance ViewNam, Governar
Tokye Republic of National Bank of Viet-Nam
cfo Embassy of Japan Saigon
Makati, Rizal
Philippines Western Samosa Secretary to the Government
Korea, Republic of Governor Gosergment of: Western Samoa
Bank of Korea P
Seoul

 

 

99APPENDIX 5 [77

   

OFFICIAL DEPOSITORIES

COUNTRY

Afghanistan

Australia

Austria

Belgium

Cambodia

Canada

Ceylon

China, Republic of

Denmark

Finland

Germany, Federal

Republic of

Hong Kong

India

indonesia

Italy

Japan

Korea, Republic of

Da Afghanistan Bank
Kabul

Reserve Bank of Austraiia
Sydney

Oesterreichische Nationaibenk
Wien

Nationat Bank of Belgium
Brussels

Banque Nationale du Cambodge
Phnom-Penh

Bank of Canada
Ottawa

Central Bank of Ceylon
Colombo

The Central Bank of China
Taipeh

Danmarks Nationat Bank
Copenhagen

Suomen Pankki—-Finlands Bank
Helsinkj

Deutsche Bundesbank
Frankfurt aM.

The Hong Kong and Shanghai
Banking Corporation
Hong Kong

Reserve Bank of India
Bombay

Bank Indonesia
Djakarta

Banca d'Italia
Rome

Bank of Japan
Tokyo

Bank of Korea
Seoul

COUNTRY

Laos

Malaysia

Nepal

Netherlands

New Zealand

Norway

Pakistan

Philippines

Singapore

Sweden
Switzertand
Thailand

United Kingdom
United States
Viet-Nam,

Republic of

Western Samoa

DEPOSITORY

Banque Nationafe du Laos
Vientiane

Bank Negara Malaysia
Kuala Lumpur

Nepal Rastra Bank
Kathmandu

De Nederiandsche Bank N.V,
Amsterdam

Reserve Bank of New Zealand
Wellington

Norges Bank
Oslo

State Bank of Pakistan
Karachi

Central Bank of the Philippines
Manila

The Accountant General
Accountant General's Department
5th Floor, Fullerton Building
Singapore

Sveriges Riksbank {Bank of Sweden)
Stockholm

Banque Nationale Suisse
Zurich

Bank of Thailand
Bangkok

Bank of England
London

Federal Reserve Bank of New York
New York

Banque Nationale du Viet-Nam
Saigon

Bank of Western Samoa
Apia

sae

ct ELIS STH MEE SEE TIT

  

Pe TLS MLN ATT UO UE TOCA RENN OTBOARD OF GOVERNORS

as of December 31, 1969)

— APPENDIX 6

et

COUNTRY
AFGHANISTAN

AUSTRALIA
AUSTRIA

BELGIUM

CAMBODIA

CANADA

CEYLON
CHINA, Republic of
DENMARK

FINLAND

GERMANY, Federal Republic of

DUCK WOO NAM! (Korea) Chairman

BARON J-CH, SNOY ET d’OPPUERS (Belgium) Vice-Chairman

ABDUL HAKIM TABIBI (Afghanistan) Vice-Chairman

GOVERNOR

ABDUL HAKIM TABIBI
Ambassador to Japan

L.H.E. BURY?
Treasurer

STEFAN KOREN

Federal Minister of
Finance

BARON J-CH. SNOY

ET d‘OPPUERS

Minister of Finance

TOUCH KIM
Governor
Nationa) Bank of Cambodia

EDGAR JOHN BENSON
Minister of Finance

N. WIMALASENA

Parliamentary Secretary

Ministry of Finance

YU KUO-HWA*

Governor

Centra} Bank of China

JENS CHRISTENSEN

Ministry of Foreign
Affairs

PENTT! UUSIVIRTAS

Head

Commercial Department

Foreign Ministry

ERHARD EPPLER

Federal Minister for
Economic Cooperation

ALTERNATE GOVERNOR
ABDUL AZIZ ATTAI?
President

Treasury Department
Ministry of Finance

F.C. PRYOR

First Assistant Secretary
Commonwealth Treasury
WERNER SAUTTER
Ambassador to Thailand

M. d‘HAEZE
Director-General
Treasury & Public Debt
Administration
Ministry of Finance
PHAN THUL
Director-General and
Director for External
Affairs
Ministry of Finance
M.F. STRONG
President
Canadian International
Development Agency
H. E. TENNEKOON
Ambassador to Japan

WANG SHAO-YU5

Administrative Vice Minister
of Finance

POUL KRYGER

Ministry of Foreign
Affairs

EERO ASP

Director

international Monetary
Fund

JOHANN BAPTIST
SCHOELLHORN

State Secretary

Federal Ministry of Economics

i

1 Succeeded Jong Ryul Whang in October 1969. 4 Succeeded Hsu Pen-yuan in September 1969.
2 Succeeded Abdul Wehab Haider in April 1969. 5 Succeeded Tu Chun-heng in September 1969.
3 Succeeded William McMahon in November 1969. 6 Succeeded Tankmar Horn in September 1969.

101BOARD OF GOVERNORS

{as of December 31, 1969}

CQuiwi BY

HONG KONG

INDIA

INDONESIA

ITALY

JAPAN

KOREA, Repubtic of

 

IVES MOE

JOHN COWPERTHWAITE 7

Financial Secretary

1G, PATELS
Special Secretary to the
Government of India

Department of Economic

Affairs
Ministry of Finance

ALI WARDHANA
Minister of Finance

GUIDO CARLI
Governor
Bank of Italy

TAKEO FUKUDA
Minister of Finance

DUCK WOO NAMI
Minister of Finance

 

LAOS SISOUK NA
CHAMPASSAK
Minister of Finance
MALAYSIA TAN SIEW SIN
Minister for
Spiciat Functions
NEPAL BHEKH BAHADUR
THAPA
Secretary of Finance
NETHERLANDS HJ, WITTEVEEN
Minister of Finance
NEW ZEALAND 8.D. MULDOON
Minister of Finance
NORWAY KAARE WILLOCH
\ Minister of Commerce
and Shipping
7 Appointed in Aprit1lg69.
8 Succeeded Morarji R. Desai in July 1969.
9 Succeeded |, G. Patel in Juty 1969,

© Succeeded Makoto Usami in December 1969,

C.S, SWAMINATHAN?

Joint Secretary

Department of Economic
Affairs

Ministry of Finance

RADIUS PRAWIRO
Governor
Bank Indonesia

GAETANO STAMMATI

Genera) Manager and
Cabinet Head

Ministry of Treasury

TADASH! SASAKI?°
Governor
Bank of Japan

JIN SOO SUH
Governor
Bank of Korea

OQUDONG SOUVANNAVONG
Governor
National Bank of Laos

ISMAIL BIN MOHAMED AL}
Governor
Bank Negara Malaysia

BHARAT BAHADUR PRADHAN??

Secretary

Ministry of Transport Communications

H.G. LANG
Secretary to the
Treasury

AXEL MOLTKE-HANSEN
Ambassador to the
Philippines and indonesia

i
il Succeeded Jong Ryu! Whang in October 1969.
12 Succeeded Kalyan Bikram Adhikary in July 1969,

 

i
i
t
k
i
i
j
\
(
;

aren ry

TTT

ote

ae eee ne NTRS TE

fAPPENDIX 6

CONTINUED

 

COUNTRY

PAKISTAN

PHILIPPINES

SINGAPORE

SWEDEN

SWITZERLAND

THAILAND

 

UNITED KINGDOM

 

UNITED STATES

VIET-NAM, Republic of

WESTERN SAMOA

GOVERNOR
NAWAB MOZAFFAR ALI

KHAN OIZILBASH13
Minister of Finance

EDUARDO Z. ROMUALDEZ
Secretary of Finance ‘

GOH KENG SWEE
Minister of Finance

G, STRAENG
Minister of Finance

EDWIN STOPPER
President

Board of Directors
Swiss Nationai Bank

SERM VINICCHAYAKUL
Minister of Finance

suDITH HAAT?S
Minister of Overseas
Development

DAVID M. KENNEDY?”
Secretary of Treasury

NGUYEN VAN DoNG*?
Acting Governor
National Bank of Viet-Nam

GUSTAV FREDERICK
DERTAG BETHAM
Minister of Finance

 

AL NATE GOVERNOR
VAQAR AHMAD14
Secretary

Economie Affairs Division

GREGORIO LICAROS

Chairman

Board of Governors

Development Bank of
the Philippines

JY.M, PILLAY ?5

Acting Permanent Secretary

Economic Development
Division

Ministry of Finance

H, WICKMAN
Minister of State for
Economic Affairs

ALEXANDRE HAY
Director-General
Swiss National Bank

SOMMAI KHOONTRAKOOL
Director

Assistant to the Governor
Bank of Thaifand

R.H.BELCHER

Uneler Secretary

Ministry of Overseas
Development

NATHANIEL SAMUELS?8
Deputy Under Secretary of
State for Economic Affairs

KARANITA ENARI
Secretary to the
Government

 

13 Succeeded |. A. Khan in September 1969. I. A. Khan succeeded
N. M. Uguaili in April 1969.

14 Appointed in September 1969,

15 Succeeded Sim Kee Boon in February 1969.

16 Succeeded Reginald Pren’

 

ein October 1969,

27 Succeeded Josepn W. Barr in March 1969,
18 Appointed in August 2969.

19 Succeeded Nguyén Huu Hann in April 1969.

103APPENDLX 7 SSSSEIRSSSauiS ISTE

 

BOARD OF DIRECTORS AND VOTING GROUPS

{as of December 31, 1969)
cr i i

Director Alternate Countries Represented?
Wazir Ali? Cornelio Balmaceda Philippines
Pakistan
R.W.H. du Boulay ‘ John A. Copland United Kingdom
Canada

Denmark, Finland, Norway, Sweden

Byung Kyu Chun Buu Hoan Korea, Republic of
China, Republic of :
Viet-Nam, Republic of

Masaru Fukuda Fumio Kawano Japan
Michelangelo de Grazia Gerhard Janschek Germany, Federa}
Republic of
Italy
Netherlands

Austria, Belgium, Switzerfand

Abdu! Wahab Haider Long Boret Indonesia
Ceylon
Afghanistan
Cambodia
Nepa}
Laos

D.S. Joshi JR. Hiremath India

Chanchai Leetavorn Leo J. Downey New Zealand
Malaysia, Thailand
Singapore
Western Samoa

J.C.G. Lloyd Lance Joseph Australia3

Bernard Zagorin George R, Jacobs United States

Rater

2 In order of voting strength within each group.
2 Resigned as of December 31, 1969; replaced by K.S, Islam.
3 Also informally taking care of Hong Kong's interest.

eo nS AAAS

 

NAN 8 LOE ROA OND NC ANSI TOE Ie NMEA aPRINCIPAL OFFICERS

(as of December 31, 1969)

Takeshi Watanabe

C.S. Krishna Moorthi

OFFICE OF THE SECRETARY

Douglas C. Gunesekera

Wilfred A. Vawdrey

OFFICE OF THE GENERAL COUNSEL

Lewis Carroll

David K. Matcolm

 

OPERATIONS DEPARTMENT

Howard Farrelly
Koji Suzuki
Akira Tsusaka
C.S. Venkat Rao
Teruyuki Obuchi:

Patrick Knapp

 

 

 

 

 

*Promoted Deputy Genera) Counsel with effect from January 1, 1970,

: APPENDIX 8

 

President

Vice President

Secretary

Assistant Secretary

Genera! Counsel

Assistant General Counsel*

Director

Operations Manager and Deputy Director
Operations Manager

Operations Manager

Operations Manager

Operations Manager

105PRINCIPAL OFFICERS

{as of December 31, 1969)

PROJECTS DEPARTMENT

Sam Chung Hsieh
Bong H, Kay
Agne lwarsson
,Theodore Mesmer
Herbert Huehne
Kasturi L. Luthra
Kazuaki Suma

ECONOMIC OFFICE

George Rosen

ADMINISTRATION DEPARTMENT

Shinsaiku Kudo
Raymond B. Lyon
F. R. S. Weereratne
Paul A. Mayer

TREASURY DEPARTMENT

$. M.A, Kazmi
Tasuku Takagaki

FINANCIAL ADVISOR
Edgar Plan

OFFICE OF THE INTERNAL AUDITOR
Carl J, Lemvig-Fog

INFORMATION OFFICE

P.S. Hariharan

06

APPENDIX

‘CONTINUED

Director

Project Manager and Deputy Director
Chief Engineer

Project Manager

Project Manager

Project Manager

Project Manager

Chief Economist

Director

Deputy Director

Assistant Director (for General Services}
Assistant Director {for Personnel)

Treasurer
Assistant Treasurer

Financial Advisor

Internal Auditor

Chief information Officer