6

ye NSS
ees,”
Improving lives.
throughout Asia
Pie ta(ol o-oo

ofl

—
ZA
a
ez

eetCONTENTS

} PRESIDENT’S MESSAGE

rt BOARD OF DIRECTORS

(3) FINANCIAL HIGHLIGHTS
CHAPTER1

r:3 Responding to the Needs of Asia and the Pacific
CHAPTER 2

16 Central and West Asia

yO ATT

PY ae (ell ile

28 South Asia

32 Southeast Asia

CHAPTER 3

36 Developing the Private Sector
CHAPTER 4

42 Delivering an Effective Organization

USB CONTENTS

ANNUAL REPORT 2014

FINANCIAL REPORT
OPERATIONAL DATA
ORGANIZATIONAL INFORMATION
ADB MEMBER FACT SHEETS2008

ADB’s long-term strategic framework Strategy 2020
commits us to help the region and its people
develop through:

  
  
  
 

 
   
  
 
 

 
   
   
 

Inclusive
economic
growth

  
  
  
 
 

Environmentally
sustainable
growth

Regional
integration

  

WHO WE ARE

ADB is an international development finance institution. We
ADB provide loans, grants, and expertise to our developing member
countries to help them alleviate poverty and create a world in

which everyone can share in the benefits of growth.

President
Takehiko Nakao

2014

ADB’s Midterm Review of Strategy 2020 sharpens our
operational focus to better address the development
challenges of a transforming region through:

   
  

    

 
  

  
 
     
    
   

   
 
 
 
 

       
 

@ cy
Increased : Strengthening
° Promoting support for
emphasis on innovation and middle-income

 
 
 
 

inclusiveness resilience

countries

  

Headquarters Founded
Manila, Philippines 1966

 

67 sembers 4

mabe 19 mone 32 Field offices 2,997 aR loyees

$22.93 BILLION including

 

$5.21 billion

$3.00 billion
EAST ASIA

  

CENTRAL AND WEST ASIA

    
  

»
.18 billion

$0.58 billio THEAST ASIA

REGIONAL & $0.20 billion
‘ PACIFIC
$6.75 billion : aS “el,
SOUTH ASIA x

FINANCE
$3.50 billion HEALTH
$0.03 billion

  
  
 
 
 
   
  
  
 
 

 
  

ENERGY
$6.65 billion

INDUSTRY &
TRADE
$0.48 billion

EDUCATION
$0.98 billion

INFORMATION &

COMMUNICATION

TECHNOLOGY
$1.79 million

AGRICULTURE,
NATURAL RESOURCES &
RURAL DEVELOPMENT

$1.45 billion

MULTISECTOR
$0.79 billion

PUBLIC SECTOR
MANAGEMENT
$2.41 billion

WATER & OTHER
URBAN INFRASTRUCTURE TRANSPORT
& SERVICES $4.36 billion

$2.29 billionREPORT

ASIAN DEVELOPMENT BANK2 ADB ANNUAL REPORT | 2014President’s Message

 

Asia and the Pacific has undergone profound change since
the turn of the millennium. Only 15 years ago, poverty was a
blight on our region. Today, we have achieved the first of the
Millennium Development Goals—to halve extreme poverty—

 

ahead of the 2015 deadline. But statistics don’t always tell

the whole story. As | visit projects around the region and
meet with our development partners, | see too many people
living in hardship. They may now earn more than $1.25 a
day—the official measure of extreme poverty, which includes
about 700 million people—but it still isn’t enough to provide
adequate shelter, nutritious food, or a safe environment for
their children.

When defining extreme poverty, we must take into account
the impact on Asia’s poor of rising food prices and more
frequent natural disasters. Doing so will raise the poverty
threshold to $1.51-a-day and mean that almost 1.8 billion
people are identified as poor. Poverty on this scale is
unacceptable. Helping those who have fallen behind, or have
never caught up, must remain the priority.

The Asian Development Bank (ADB) has examined its own
priorities. In 2014, some 6 years after we introduced our longterm strategic agenda, Strategy 2020, we again took stock to
ensure we remained relevant and responsive to the evolving
needs of our member countries. The Midterm Review (MTR)
of Strategy 2020 called on ADB to sharpen and rebalance

its operational focus. In response, the MTR Action Plan
approved in July, contains more than 190 initiatives that will

 

Management Team

 

make ADB more efficient and effective. Helping the region
address its enormous infrastructure needs will remain our
focus, but we will channel more resources into areas where
they’re needed most: private sector development, climate
change, disaster risk prevention and management, and social
protection. We will also double our investments in health and
education. Inclusiveness, innovation, and a commitment to
share our development knowledge and expertise will inform
everything we do.

I’m pleased to share these initiatives in this report. In
September, for example, we established a public-private
partnership office to provide governments with advice on

how to engage private sector financing and expertise for
infrastructure projects (see page 37). We've also streamlined
our procurement process to minimize project delays (page 44).
An initiative to combine our concessional lending operations
with our ordinary capital resources balance sheet will
significantly enhance ADB’s lending capacity (page 14).

In 2014, ADB approved $22.93 billion in development
assistance, including $13.69 billion from ADB and special funds,
anda record $9.24 billion in cofinancing. We also disbursed
over $10 billion for the first time in 5 years. These numbers
emphasize ADB’s push for improved project implementation
and for greater private sector participation and cofinancing
schemes to help fund the estimated $8 trillion required to
close the region’s infrastructure gap over the next decade.

My resolve is that ADB remains proactive and responsive,
striving for even greater achievements in poverty reduction as
we approach 2020.

 

Takehiko Nakao
President and Chairman
Board of Directors

 

A &

 

SERRE

Left to right: Vice-Presidents Bindu N. Lohani, Lakshmi Venkatachalam, Stephen P. Groff, Thierry de Longuemar, Bruce L. Davis, Wencai Zhang;

Managing Director General Juan Miranda; The Secretary Woo Chong Um

 

PRESIDENT’S MESSAGEBoard of Directors

 

Front row, from left: Directors Maurizio Ghirga, Umesh Kumar, Maliami bin Hamad, Kazuhiko Koguchi, Robert M. Orr; President and Chairman of the Board of Directors
Takehiko Nakao; Directors Yeo Kwon Yoon, Zhongjing Wang, Anthony Baker, Muhammad Sami Saeed, David Murchison. Back row: Alternate Directors René Legrand;
Iqbal Mahmood; Khin Khin Lwin; Hideo Fukushima; Michael Strauss; M P D U K Mapa Pathirana; Wenxing Pan; Richard Sisson; Dominic Walton-France; Gaudencio
Hernandez, Jr.; Armand Evers.

Not in photo: Directors Bhimantara Widyajala, Richard Edwards; Alternate Director Mario Sander.

he Board of Directors is responsible for the
overall direction of ADB, including the approval
of policies, loans, grants, equity investments,
and guarantees. It also plays a vital role in
ensuring that ADB shareholder guidance

is implemented.

The Board approves work programs and budget frameworks,
and the salaries and benefits of staff. It reviews and endorses
ADB’s annual financial statements, the budget, and the
allocation of net income for approval by the Board of
Governors at each annual meeting. The Board of Directors
participates in various events during ADB’s annual

meeting, which, in 2014, was hosted by the city of Astana,
Kazakhstan.

The Board meets as often as required to manage the
business of ADB. In 2014, it held 44 formal meetings and
25 informal meetings, seminars, and briefings. The Board

approved $13.69 billion in loans, grants, equity investments,
guarantees, and technical assistance.

COMMITTEE WORK

The Board’s work is supported by six committees: Audit,
Budget Review, Compliance Review, Development
Effectiveness, Ethics, and Human Resources. These
committees meet several times throughout the year,
providing guidance to Management and the Board.

The Budget Review Committee faced new challenges in
2014. ADB introduced a more integrated approach for
reviewing ADB’s lending capacity, operations, budget,

and salaries and benefits. The approach included a new,
iterative process for financial operations and budget
planning, and the Budget Review Committee led the

Board’s involvement in this process. The committee also
considered the resources needed to implement the Midterm
Review (MTR) of Strategy 2020 Action Plan and efficiency

 

 

ADB ANNUAL REPORT | 2014measures undertaken by operational and
administrative staff. These issues were also
discussed at the annual Board—Management
Retreat.

On the advice of the Budget Review
Committee, the Board endorsed ADB’s
Work Program and Budget Framework,
2015-2017. The Board also approved the
Asian Development Bank Institute ThreeYear Rolling Work Program, 2015-2017 and
Budget for 2015.

The Development Effectiveness Committee
assists the Board to ensure that the programs
and activities of ADB are effective. In 2014,
the committee considered a number of
evaluations prepared by ADB’s Independent
Evaluation Department. These included ADB
support for inclusive growth, climate change,
enhancing governance in public sector
operations, the role of technical assistance

in ADB operations, and the performance

of ADB’s Trade Finance Program. The
committee also considered the first phase

of an operational review of ADB’s safeguards
policy, and the first assessment of the
performance of ADB assistance to Tajikistan
between 1998 and 2013.

CHANGING THE DYNAMICS

During the year, the Board considered two
important issues affecting the strategic
direction of ADB: the MTR of Strategy 2020,
and a proposal to combine the lending
operations of the Asian Development Fund
(ADF)—ADB’s concessional financing—
with the institution’s ordinary capital
resources balance sheet.

The Board was deeply engaged in the
process for the MTR of Strategy 2020. Board
members undertook consultations with their
respective constituencies and helped to
convey the priorities of member countries

to ADB. The Board held formal and informal
discussions with ADB on aspects of the
review.

The Board discussed the issue of expanding
ADB’s capital base, and considered a
number of measures aimed at enhancing
ADB's overall lending capacity. The Board
provided extensive advice on the proposal
to merge ADF lending with ADB’s ordinary
capital resources, which is expected to
enhance the financial capacity of ADB

through more efficient and effective
management of its capital resources. This
reform would strengthen ADB support to
vulnerable countries—mostly countries
accessing the ADF—to address persistent
poverty and economic fragility. Improved
financial capacity will also help confront
environmental challenges, infrastructure
gaps, and conflict-affected situations. It will
provide increased support for private sector
operations.

ENGAGING OUR BORROWERS

The Board engages with developing member
countries (DMCs) in several ways. It receives
visiting delegations at ADB headquarters

in Manila, and it considers and approves
country partnership strategies, which outline
how ADB will assist each DMC to achieve the
objectives of its development plan.

In 2014, the Board endorsed country
partnership strategies for Azerbaijan, Bhutan,
Cambodia, and Fiji.

The Board also undertakes missions to
DMCs in the form of Board Group Visits and
consultations. Board Group Visits involve a
number of Board members visiting particular
countries to observe ADB operations,

and to discuss development priorities

and challenges with government officials,
other development partners, business and
community groups, and people who benefit
from projects funded by ADB. Consultations
involve Board members visiting the countries
they represent for discussions with their
governments.

Board Group Visits were conducted to
Bhutan and Nepal in February and March
2014, to the Federated States of Micronesia
and the Marshall Islands in June, to
Bangladesh in September, and to Cambodia
and Viet Nam in October.

Board members also visited various
municipalities in Leyte province and other
areas of the Philippines affected by Typhoon
Yolanda (internationally called Haiyan).
They met with recipients of ADB assistance
and provincial and local officials, observed
ongoing reconstruction activities, and visited
the ADB office in Tacloban City.

 

 

The Board group visited
Bhutan in late February
2014. The group toured
the ADB-funded

Urban Infrastructure
Development Project

in Thimphu, and the
Dagachhu Hydropower
Project in Dagana
(pictured). It also
received an audience
with H.M. Jigme Khesar
Namgyel Wangchuck, the
King of Bhutan, and met
with senior government
officials, including

the Prime Minister,

H.E. Tshering Tobgay.

 

BOARD OF DIRECTORSFinancial Highlights

APPROVALS BY
FINANCING SOURCE, 2014

Ordinary Capital Resources

$10.438 B

Special Funds Resources

$3.250 B

Tera CU oo aCe (ste MOTEL

$9.237B

 

FINANCIAL OPERATIONS

In 2014, ADB’s operations totaled $22.93 billion, of which $13.69 billion was
financed by ADB (ordinary capital resources [OCR] and Special Funds
Resources) and $9.24 billion by cofinancing partners. Sovereign operations,
including official and technical assistance cofinancing, totaled $15.99 billion.
Nonsovereign operations, including cofinancing, totaled $6.94 billion.

Disbursements totaled $10.01 billion, an increase of $1.47 billion (17%) from 2013.

Sovereign and Nonsovereign Approvals, 2010-2014,

 

 

 

($ million) 2010° 92011" =—- 2012", 2013°. 2014.
Sovereign 14,463 14,600 13,429 16,450 15,990
Loans 10,410 10,580 10,457 11,740 11,205
Equity Investments = 150 - - =
Grants? 952 614 670 849 405
Technical Assistance 71 137 146 149 148
Direct Value-Added Cofinancing 2,930 3119 = 2,155 3,712 4,232
Official Cofinancing® 2,782 2,909 2,009 3,435 4,090
Technical Assistance Cofinancing# 148 210 146 277 142
Nonsovereign 3474 5,774 7,496 4,541 6,935
Loans 815 1,250 916 1,425 14,714
Equity Investments 235 44 131 142 185
Guarantees 190 267 128 35 20
Supply Chain Finance* - 200 = =
Technical Assistance 2 8 5 6 "
Direct Value-Added Cofinancing 2,232 4,205 6,17 2,933 5,006
Official Cofinancing® 2 = 19 135 194
Commercial Cofinancing* 2,229 4,204 6,097 2,797 4,809
B Loans 200 200 2008 2208 8638
Parallel Loans 479 1,623 3,341 109 1,503
Parallel Equity = = = 2 340
Trade Finance Program 1,549 2,381 2,344 2,279 2,039
Cofinancing
Guarantee Cofinancing* - - 87 vA} 8
Risk Transfer! = = 126 113 56
Technical Assistance Cofinancing? 1 1 ° 1 2
TOTAL 17,936 20,374 20,925 20,991 22,925

 

- =nil, o = less than $500,000.

Note: Totals may not add up because of rounding.

2 Excludes terminated loans, grants, equities, guarantees, and technical assistance.

© Refer to investment grants.

© In 2014, the different sources of cofinancing were clarified by including a new category “other concessional
cofinancing” comprising concessional financing from the private sector and public sources other than bilaterals
and multilaterals.

+ In 2014, Technical Assistance Cofinancing includes other concessional cofinancing.

© Supply Chain Finance is a program that provides guarantees and loans (both without government guarantee)
through partner financial institutions to support payments to suppliers and distributors of goods in ADB’s
developing member countries.

‘In 200, the definition of direct value-added (DVA) commercial cofinancing was clarified by providing detailed

criteria for qualification of DVA cofinancing. The figures for 2010-2014 reflect the new definition.

B Loans includes US dollar and local currency complementary loans.

For loans provided by third parties and not fully guaranteed by ADB, such as partial credit guarantees or partial risk

guarantees, the portion of loans that is not guaranteed by ADB is considered as net DVA cofinancing and reported

in the year of signing the guarantee agreements.

' This refers to the amount of ordinary capital resources allocation relief as a result of risk transfer arrangements,
whereby a third party assumes risk under a guarantee or loan provided by ADB. The amount of allocation relief
depends on the risk rating and nature of the counterparty.

 

ADB ANNUAL REPORT | 2014AVAILABLE RESOURCES

Authorized and subscribed capital stock amounted to $154.09 billion and
$153.06 billion, respectively. The decrease in the authorized capital and
subscribed capital from 2013 to 2014 was mainly due to the strengthening of the
US dollar against the special drawing rights (SDR). Other resources in OCR in
the form of revenue and net realized gains amounted to $1.26 billion, of which
$605.34 million was generated from the loan portfolio, $351.67 million from

the investment portfolio, and $303.94 million from equity investment and

other sources. Resources in the form of contributions and revenue in ADB’s
Special Funds totaled about $480.67 million. These mainly included the

Asian Development Fund of $427.70 million, the Technical Assistance Special
Fund of $34.62 million, the Asian Development Bank Institute of $12.65 million,
the Regional Cooperation and Integration Fund of $3.66 million, and the Financial
Sector Development Partnership Special Fund of $1.88 million.

In 2014, ADB raised $14.25 billion in medium- and long-term funds through public
bond issues and private placements in 11 currencies. Public offerings amounted
to $12.15 billion, which include two global benchmark bond issues denominated

in euro and US dollars. The remaining $2.10 billion was raised through private
placements.

Among the highlights of ADB’s capital markets activities in 2014 were the
issuance of its inaugural euro benchmark bonds totaling €1.5 billion ($2.1 billion
equivalent) in April 2014, the first offshore Indian rupee-linked bonds totaling
Rs3.0 billion ($49 million equivalent) in August, a return to the Canadian dollar
Maple market with C$400 million ($364 million equivalent) in September, and
a second Dimsum bond amounting to CNY1.0 billion ($164 million equivalent)
in November. ADB continued to issue thematic bonds, raising $284 million
equivalent from its sale of water bonds.

ADB also raised $2.42 billion of short-term funds under its Euro-Commercial
Paper Program. At the end of 2014, only $475 million remained outstanding.

Resources as of end of period

 

($ million) 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014,

 

Ordinary Capital Resources

Authorized Capital 163,843 163,336 163,512 163,840 + 154,092
Subscribed Capital 143,950 162,487 163,129 162,809 153,056
Paid-in Capital and Reserves 15,878 16,534 16,420 17,138 16,938
Outstanding Debt 51,822 58,257 64,762% 61,615 62,688
Asian Development Fund 32,651 33,055 33,346 33,359 31,478

 

* From 2012 onward, amount includes accrued interest and commission.

 

TOTAL DISBURSEMENTS, 2010-2014
($ million)

2010 7,976
2011 8,266
2012 8,592

2013 8,542

2014 10,009

($ million)

2010 14,940
|
2011 14,446
eee
2012 15,067
ee
2013 12,725

|

2014 14,724

2010 548
2011 587
2012 465

2013 469
2014 571

 

FINANCIAL HIGHLIGHTSMTR ACTION PLAN:
ADB will strengthen
productivity and

Cedi) Tate eM Dg
Tete ee corso
Coad

 

Responding to the Needs
of Asia and the Pacific

 

ADB ANNUAL REPORT | 2014he Asia and Pacific region has a remarkable

record of economic growth, delivering average

annual expansion of 7.6% from 2004 to 2014.

Though the pace of growth eased in 2014,

it still averaged a robust 6.3% across the 45
economies that make up the region. The next few years are
also expected to deliver growth rates above 6%.

The impact of such growth on the region has been
profound. Between 1990 and 2011, approximately

950 million people were lifted out of extreme poverty,
with the rate—currently calculated by the number of
people surviving on less than $1.25 a day—falling from
55.3% to 15.3%.

But these headline figures mask a range of development
issues that continue to challenge the region’s policy makers.

Inequality, the gap between rich and poor, continues to
widen as the benefits of economic growth are unevenly
distributed.

The region is exposed to greater environmental risks arising
from climate change, and it is vulnerable to economic
shocks and natural hazards. The gap between infrastructure
needs and available financing also remains a problem.

Hundreds of millions of people remain in poverty.

Though $1.25 a day remains the official measure of extreme
poverty, increasing evidence suggests that this indicator
may be set too low. When the poverty line is adjusted

to reflect updated data and consumption patterns from
the region—and when food insecurity and vulnerability

to economic shocks are considered—about 50% of the
region’s population in 2010 could have been classified as
living in extreme poverty.

These development challenges require an ambitious,
strategic focus to spur high economic growth, which
is inclusive and environmentally sustainable, across
the region.

 

68.75 MILLION TONS

  

 

 

 

RESPONDING TO THE NEEDS OF ASIA AND THE PACIFICSTRATEGIC FOCUS: RESPONSIVENESS, In July 2014, ADB adopted the MTR of Strategy 2020 Action.
RELEVANCE, EFFECTIVENESS Plan (MTR Action Plan). The plan consists of more than 190
initiatives that will enhance the responsiveness, relevance,
and effectiveness of ADB operations. While infrastructure
investment will remain the core operational focus, the MTR
Action Plan also outlined measures to further promote
inclusiveness, innovation, and the leveraging of knowledge.

To address evolving development issues and ensure
relevant responses, ADB conducted a Midterm Review
(MTR) of its long-term strategic framework, Strategy 2020.

The MTR of Strategy 2020, approved by the ADB Board of
Directors in April 2014, assessed the existing and emerging
challenges for developing member countries (DMCs), and
mapped out ways in which ADB can better serve all its
member countries.

In line with the MTR of Strategy 2020, ADB projects in 2014
supported sustained, inclusive economic growth in areas and
regions where poverty levels are at their worst.

 

Toward 2020: ADB’s Ten-Point Action Plan

Poverty reduction and inclusive economic growth. Expand
support to achieve rapid and inclusive economic growth.
Emphasize social protection, financial inclusion, and inclusive
business. Provide additional resources for low-income, fragile,
and/or conflict-affected developing member countries (DMCs).

Organizing to meet new challenges.
Strengthen staff skills, incentives, and
institutional arrangements. Become a
more dynamic, agile, and innovative
institution.

 
   
   
  
  
    
 
 
  
   
  
 
 
 
  
 
  
  
   

Delivering value for
money in ADB. Increase
efficiency, effectiveness,

and institutional
economies. Streamline and
strengthen business
processes. Systematically
apply results frameworks at
the corporate, country, and
project levels.

Environment and climate
change. Increase support

for the environment and for
adaptation to climate change.
Promote natural resource
management and integrated
disaster risk management.

Regional

cooperation and
integration.
Expand support for
E -border
. The MTR recommended ~ close Boley
Financial that ADB sharpen and rebalance investments.
resources.and ee cule cra tam cei e) Strengthen .
partnerships. . Prat Elie ltl countries

reality, ADB developed the MTR of
expand ADB’s SET PPT Sd
capital base and RCA i 8 eo te
strengthen ADB’s Tien) vd) operations on hug
partnerships with ground, build skills, and provide
other multilateral better service to member countries. _
and bilateral TUE me eect ala
institutions, the updated from tA Ra
private sector, reflect changing business needs
and civil society. BUT ule
experiences.

Explore ways to productivity and
competitiveness
through greater
regional
connectivity.

Infrastructure
development. Enhance
support for policy,

: | regulatory, and
Knowledge solutions. | governance reforms.

Adopt and implement Strengthen public
a “One ADB infrastructure
approach for all ADB management systems.
departments to work More effectively
together more closely. leverage ADB resources
Promote synergies by developing larger
between knowledge infrastructure projects.
work and operations. Promote private sector
participation.

Private sector development and operations.
Expand assistance for private sector development
and operations to 50% of annual operations by
2020. Develop more innovative financing solutions
for projects. Encourage public-private partnerships.

O-------O-------O

Middle-income countries.
Ensure continuing relevance and
responsiveness to the evolving
development needs of DMCs.

2008 2014 2020
Strategy 2020 Midterm Review (MTR) of MTR puts ADB on track to achieve
introduced. Strategy 2020 conducted. its strategic goals by 2020.

 

 

 

 

10 ADB ANNUAL REPORT | 2014MTR ACTION PLAN:
rN) aoe.)
eect ce
developing larger
infrastructure
projects.

 

ADB mobilized around

CW}


in climate funding in 2014

 

RESPONDING TO THE NEEDS OF ASIA AND THE PACIFICA Joint Effort to Tackle Disease

that help prevent Peete et eee kita Br

Fal po

odes ee act ADB tas countries in the Greater Mekong

ye Tolan

iv developed systems to Co and Ser

ET CUM ly 4: Ce Cul
respond to new threats such as dru
disease, and other emerging diseas

.

id GMS ieatiomall tela) cesar Pasa eres)

being prepared.

 

 

SUSTAINABLE
ENERGY FOR ALL

 

 

 

 

 

It intensified efforts to create jobs and
expand services such as electricity, water
supply and sanitation, education, and health.

To help alleviate the environmental stresses
associated with rapid economic growth, ADB
committed $12.55 billion to projects with a
focus on renewable energy, energy efficiency
and conservation, sustainable transport, clean
water, sanitation and waste management, and
managing the effects of climate change.

ADB continues to promote regional
cooperation and integration (RCI) as a means
of accelerating growth and reducing poverty,
investing $3.4 billion in projects, leveraging
$1.2 billion in cofinancing, and providing
technical assistance of $115 million for RCI
activities in 2014.

ADB has set a target that nonsovereign
development and operations will constitute
at least half of its annual operations by 2020.
It is acting now to expand its nonsovereign
operations and strengthen its support for
public-private partnerships (PPPs). These
PPPs are typically long-term contractual
arrangements between governments and the
private sector for financing and delivering
infrastructure services. ADB has been
working to build the regulatory, institutional,
financial, and commercial frameworks

AFP.

needed to support such partnerships. It

is also streamlining nonsovereign loans

for industries such as agribusiness, where
projects can have a highly inclusive impact,
and expanding operations in lower-income
countries and frontier economies.

SECTOR HIGHLIGHTS: INVESTING FOR
RESULTS

The MTR of Strategy 2020 reinforced ADB’s
operational focus to respond to the dual
challenges of energy security and climate
change by investing in clean energy. In 2014,
ADB surpassed—for the fourth year ina
row—its annual target of investing $2 billion
in energy efficiency and renewable energy
projects. Total clean energy investments for
the year amounted to $2.4 billion, comprising
investments in renewable energy, energy
efficiency, and switching to cleaner fuel.
Total lending approved in the energy sector
in 2014 amounted to $6.6 billion, including
investments from ADB’s own resources
($2.8 billion) and cofinancing ($3.8 billion).

ADB helps deliver sustainable transport
infrastructure and services that contribute
to low-carbon, safe, and affordable transport
networks. In 2014, ADB’s transport portfolio
accounted for about 28% of its total lending.
This included $805 million for railway
projects, the largest commitment in its

 

12

ADB ANNUAL REPORT | 2014history. As Asia’s urban population continues to swell by

44 million a year, ADB estimates that 80% of new economic
growth will be generated in urban areas. In response, ADB has
more than tripled its lending to urban transport operations
compared to the previous decade.

In 2014, ADB approved $1.15 billion for projects supporting
urban development. These focused on developing inclusive,
competitive, and environmentally sustainable cities that
promote good governance. Investments include $140 million
for the development of secondary cities in Viet Nam, such as
Buon Ma Thuot, Ha Tinh, and Tam Ky. This program aims to
build greener and more climate-resilient cities by delivering
better solid waste management, wastewater and stormwater
systems, and roads.

Almost 20 million people across Asia and the Pacific will
benefit from ADB’s total water lending of $2.88 billion in
2014, spread across the water and other infrastructure and
services sector, and agriculture, natural resources and rural
development sector. This investment makes good on ADB’s
commitment to make water a core area of its operations, and
exceeds the annual target of up to $2.5 billion. In 2011, ADB
set a goal to increase the share of sanitation in total water
lending from 14% to at least 25% by 2020. The figure for 2014
was already at 27.5%.

ADB continues to devote significant resources to secondary
education, technical and vocational education and training
(TVET), and higher education. In 2014, ADB’s education
investments, including cofinancing and special funds,
amounted to $976 million, of which 50% financed TVET
and skills development in six DMCs. Notably, Bangladesh,
Cambodia, and Sri Lanka implemented programs to develop
the skills demanded by key industries, with over 260,000
individuals trained in Bangladesh alone.

Finance sector operations in 2014 focused on financial
inclusion and infrastructure finance. ADB took measures to
broaden financial inclusion through microfinance, improve
financial conditions for small and medium-sized enterprises
(SMEs), and enhance capital markets and financial stability.
More profitable SMEs will enable inclusive economic growth,
create resilient economies, and expand diversity in regional
and international supply chains. In 2014, finance sector
investment totaled $3.5 billion.

ADB has committed to double its annual lending in the
health sector by 2020. It is focusing on increasing operations
that support universal health coverage—the concept of
making necessary health services affordable for all. While no
new loans for health were approved in 2014, ADB continued
to implement ongoing health projects in Bangladesh
Cambodia, the Lao People’s Democratic Republic, Mongolia,
Myanmar, Pakistan, Papua New Guinea, the Philippines, and
Viet Nam. Some of the benefits of these projects include
improved quality and affordability of hospital services in

 

 

Mongolia, more health clinics and doctors for the people in
10 municipalities of Bangladesh, and pilot health insurance
coverage for recipients of social assistance in Pakistan.

ADB is closing in on its commitment to invest $2 billion
annually for agriculture and food security. In 2014,
investment in the agriculture sector totaled $1.45 billion,
including $8.56 million in technical assistance. The
investments aim to stimulate food production and processing
chains through flood control, water resource management,
and agribusiness development. ADB’s commitment to
inclusive agriculture helps meet demand for safe and
nutritious food, while generating substantial business and
employment opportunities in rural areas.

YOUR SAY:

Because of the project we were
able to improve the reliability of
electricity to the national hospital.

This had a direct impact on
improving health care services.

ana ee COC ee Tara Lee ela
expanded and improved power supply in Samoa

 

THEMATIC HIGHLIGHTS: INCLUSION FOR ALL

ADB supports gender equality and women’s empowerment
in its assistance across Asia and the Pacific. ADB is helping
to develop public policies and investments to improve the
prospects for women and girls in various sectors, including
education, TVET, infrastructure, finance, and enterprise
development. In 2014, 55% of ADB’s sovereign projects
contained a strong focus on gender equality. Most notably,
more than 90% of ADB-supported education and health
projects had high levels of gender equality over the past

3 years. The percentages were also significant in agriculture,
water infrastructure, and urban infrastructure, with 80%-90%
of projects demonstrating gender equality.

Gender-focused projects are making a difference on the
ground. In Pakistan’s Sindh Province, a coastal community
development project enabled 9,700 women in isolated rural
areas to access skills training on livestock management,
horticulture, and other vocational skills. More than 1500
women’s community groups were established, providing

a forum for women to contribute to the decision-making
process on important community issues like water supply and
the building of other small scale infrastructure. The project
also facilitated national identify card registration for over
6,000 women who gained legal identity for the first time.

 

RESPONDING TO THE NEEDS OF ASIA AND THE PACIFIC

13In 2014, ADB approved four private sector projects
incorporating measures for gender balance. These projects
span education, agribusiness, housing, and financial
inclusion. This compares with one project approved in 2013.

ADB provided support for social protection in 2014. In
the People’s Republic of China (PRC), where the size of
the aging population is growing rapidly, ADB provided
employment training to improve elderly care services in
Yichang city in Hubei Province. The city is expected to
become a model for elderly care in the PRC.

The MTR of Strategy 2020 reaffirmed ADB’s commitment
to help the region tackle climate change and other
challenges to the environment. While continuing the

vital work of mitigating climate change, ADB is increasing

its emphasis on adaptation. Mitigation measures include
renewable energy, energy efficiency, railways, and urban
mass transport. Adaptation involves incorporating climate
resilience into development planning, and strengthening the
capacity of DMCs to plan for and manage climate risks. ADB
is providing access to global and regional sources of climate
finance, mobilizing around $3.2 billion in climate funding in
2014—$2.58 billion from its own resources and $604 million
from external resources.

ADB continues to emphasize the importance of disaster
resilience, highlighting the need to integrate disaster risk
management with climate change adaptation. Financing
increased for disaster risk management, with 80 loans and
grants integrating some aspect of disaster risk management
approved. This included emergency assistance for severe

flooding in Solomon Islands, and funding for a program to
manage the risks of flood and riverbank erosion in Bangladesh.
ADB also supported post-disaster recovery and reconstruction
in Afghanistan, Cambodia, India, and Tonga.

 

The MTR Action Plan calls for further resources to be directed
toward improving governance and capacity development in
operations and public sector management. ADB increased its
focus on technological change in the public sector during 2014.
It backed the adoption and implementation of e-solutions in
countries such as Myanmar, where ADB is helping authorities
to develop an e-governance master plan and benchmark

local information and communication technology capacities.
In 2014, ADB became a multilateral member of the Open
Government Partnership, which supports country efforts to
advance open government and social accountability.

ADB stresses the need to develop knowledge solutions

that help DMCs address their development challenges. It is
exchanging knowledge with the PRC to provide input for the
country’s forthcoming Five-Year Plan, and with Indonesia to
develop knowledge solutions for energy security, food security,
and skills development. More broadly, it is initiating country
knowledge plans with all DMCs to strengthen the delivery

of knowledge solutions. It is also developing a database

of knowledge products and services to centralize all of its
knowledge work.

LEVERAGING ADB RESOURCES: MORE DYNAMIC
SOLUTIONS

Meeting the imposing financing needs of its DMCs is
increasingly challenging for ADB and its donors. in response,

 

14

ADB ANNUAL REPORT | 2014ADB has developed a proposal to broaden its capital base
by absorbing the loan operations of the Asian Development
Fund (ADF) into its ordinary capital resources (OCR).
balance sheet.

The move is expected to almost triple ordinary capital
resources equity, enabling ADB to strengthen its financial
position, expand its risk-bearing capacities, provide
increased development assistance.

The proposed new structure would also help deliver
increased support for private sector operations, especially
in ADF countries. If approved by the Board of Governors,
the proposal will be effective in January 2017.

In addition to increasing its own lending capacity, ADB
continued to seek innovative ways of leveraging its
resources to better address the region’s development
needs. ADB has set a goal of exceeding its own financing
with cofinancing by 2020, and it is on target to meet

that goal. In 2014, ADB’s financing of $13.69 billion
leveraged $9.24 billion of cofinancing. This included 52%
of commercial cofinancing and 48% official and other
concessional cofinancing, in addition to the nonsovereign
syndication operations.

In 2014, ADB signed a cofinancing arrangement with
German development agency KfW and the International
Fund for Agricultural Development, and extended an
existing agreement with the Islamic Development Bank.

Managing ‘The Stuff of Life’

MARCA ol chee Oe MCRL acd col cee)
many parts of Asia and the Pacific, the Midterm Review of
Strategy 2020 requires ADB to focus on water efficiency and
determining how “the stuff of life” can be most productively
used and managed. An irrigation project in Bangladesh
provides a good example. Under a public-private partnership,

a first for ADB in irrigation, a private management team will
J oTemotol acto ce Melee (aM Xa cele eee M UTC
contract for the 5 years of the construction phase, leading
to the engagement of an irrigation management operator
for 15 years once construction is complete. At the farm
level, water-saving practices will include a network of
highly efficient distribution pipes stretching across about
17,000 hectares. Other innovations include the use of prepaid
card meters to improve payment and accounting, and the
piloting of solar pumps for about 60 hectares to explore
sustainable power options.

ADB established new trust funds in cooperation
with the governments of Australia, Japan, and the
United Kingdom.

ADB is also continuing to develop new measures to
encourage greater private investment in infrastructure,
particularly in the renewable energy sector. These
include increased use of credit enhancement facilities,
larger focus on external resource mobilization through
syndicated B loans and parallel loans (over $860 million
was attracted through ADB’s B-loan syndication activities
in 2014), and innovative use of concessional funding.
Through these, ADB is strengthening its ties with the
private sector as a source of external financing to help
achieve its expanding development objectives.

MORE THAN

1.66 MILLION TEACHERS
trained with quality or
competency standards
between 2011-2014

 

 

RESPONDING TO THE NEEDS OF ASIA AND THE PACIFIC

15MTR ACTION PLAN:
ADB will provide more
resources to lowTeel Ae Ute (og
conflict-affected
member countries.

ountries in Central and

West Asia posted disparate

economic results for 2014.

While some maintained

high-growth momentum,
others were affected by depressed
markets in the Russian Federation and
the subdued global outlook.

Kazakhstan’s economic growth fell to its
lowest rate since 2009. The devaluation
of the Kazakhstan tenge in February 2014
affected services, and falling oil prices
reduced industrial output. In Uzbekistan,
large government investment programs
kept growth stable.

Supported by public investments, the
non-oil sector in Azerbaijan offset
contraction in oil output and drove
growth of the country’s economy, while
Turkmenistan posted gross domestic
product figures that were bolstered by
new gas-field facilities.

In the Kyrgyz Republic, growth slowed
to 3.6% in 2014 as the economies of the
Russian Federation and Kazakhstan
weakened. Local currency depreciation
of about 19% pushed inflation to 7.5%.
Remittances fell by 5% with deterioration
in the economies of Kazakhstan and the
Russian Federation—where most Kyrgyz
migrants work—and their currencies’
depreciation. Gold production and
exports dropped, as the quality of
extracted ore declined, exacerbated by
the lower gold prices.

Similarly, the Government of Tajikistan
is bracing for severe impacts on its

 

16

ADB ANNUAL REPORT | 2014economy, with remittances expected to be down significantly
in 2015. To create jobs for large numbers of migrant workers
returning home, the government has requested budgetary
support from development partners, including ADB.

In Georgia, growth picked up in 2014, driven by higher
domestic demand, exports, and foreign direct investment.
Armenia’s economic expansion slowed, mainly due to lower
supply-side growth.

In Afghanistan, the withdrawal of international security
forces, and the transition to full Afghan responsibility for
security, put pressure on public spending.

The region, particularly its landlocked countries, remains
constrained by high transport costs. Some countries are
still experiencing increases in poverty rates above 30%, and
renewed efforts are required to provide solid platforms

for inclusive growth. The Kyrgyz Republic and Tajikistan
continue to suffer power shortages in winter, while Pakistan
and Afghanistan face energy deficits all year round.

OPERATIONAL HIGHLIGHTS

In 2014, ADB approved total new lending of $2.75 billion
to governments in Central and West Asia, supported by
$1.16 billion in cofinancing, and $38.16 million in technical
assistance. The new lending and grants went to energy
(57%), transport (25%), public finance and management
(8%), environment and natural resources (5%), urban
services (3%), and emergency assistance (2%). Contract
awards and disbursement levels were $1.89 billion and
$2.33 billion, respectively.

It was an important year for relations between ADB and
Azerbaijan. In September, ADB approved a new country
partnership strategy, outlining its assistance to Azerbaijan for
2014-2018. It will support Azerbaijan’s national development
goals by focusing assistance on transport, energy, water,

and other urban infrastructure and services. During the
year, ADB approved funding for two vital transport projects:
one will reconstruct bridges and rehabilitate local roads

in the Ganja-Gazakh region; the other will construct

30 kilometers (km) of highway between Jalilabad and
Shorsulu.

ADB established an innovative partnership with Kazakhstan
in 2014, signing a cofinancing framework for resources drawn
from the National Fund of Kazakhstan. The framework
breaks new ground for the effective stewardship of funds
used to develop infrastructure, small and medium-sized
enterprises, and the finance sector.

When Afghanistan experienced the worst flash flooding in
at least a generation, affecting more than 125,000 people in
27 provinces, ADB responded with emergency assistance to
reconstruct irrigation systems and rural roads. The project
will help prevent flood erosion by funding retaining walls,

enabling irrigated land to be returned to full production

as soon as possible. Restoring roads and bridges will allow
travel and freight transport to resume. In December, ADB
approved a project that will also assess resources and
technology in four off-grid Afghanistan provinces, and draw
up a renewable-energy development plan.

New development assistance will help the Kyrgyz Republic
improve the quality and relevance of its education system,
while policy and project loans across Pakistan’s entire power
sector will help tackle its chronic energy crisis.

YOUR SAY:

We used to wake early to fetch
firewood for cooking breakfast
for our children before they went

to school. Biogas means we can
sleep longer and prepare meals
in minutes.

Shameem Bibi, mother of five, discusses an ADB
Waele Roam age cam eel

 

In Armenia, ADB, in collaboration with the European Bank for
Reconstruction and Development, agreed to fund a project
to rehabilitate the aging national power transmission system.
This work will make power supplies across the country more
reliable and efficient.

DRIVING TRADE BY SHARING KNOWLEDGE

ADB’s knowledge products and services in Central and West
Asia covered a broad spectrum of issues in 2014, with a focus
on promoting private sector growth.

The Central Asia Regional Economic Cooperation (CAREC)
Program remained central to producing knowledge, and its
efforts included a study on the economic corridor between
Almaty in Kazakhstan and the Kyrgyz Republic capital,
Bishkek. A growth diagnostic study was also finalized for

the Kyrgyz Republic.

 

Knowledge-sharing events, such as conferences and
workshops, aimed to facilitate trade, analyze opportunities
for economic diversification, promote tourism, and improve
competitiveness in agricultural markets across the region.
Training programs were offered to central bankers and
officials from ministries of finance on bank regulation, risk
management, and the supervisory capacity of financial
regulators.

 

CENTRAL AND WEST ASIAIn Armenia, a workshop was held on the country’s
experience with policy and institutional reforms in municipal
water systems. The workshop analyzed past and present
practice, and provided a summary on reforms, lessons
learned, and future plans. High-level government officials
from Timor-Leste, in the Pacific region, also attended the
workshop to learn firsthand how Armenia has transformed
its water sector by implementing reforms and partnering
with the private sector.

In Azerbaijan, ADB helped the government develop a
master plan to prioritize investment in power, which will
make electricity delivery more reliable and reduce power
outages. ADB also supported government efforts to
investigate possible private sector participation in the
power sector.

THE DIRECT ROUTE TO REGIONAL COOPERATION

The CAREC Program continued to be the centerpiece
of ADB regional development assistance in Central and
West Asia. Since the program began in 1996, ADB has
invested $24.6 billion in 158 projects that back regional.
cooperation and integration (RCI). CAREC projects
remained focused on transport, energy, trade facilitation,
and trade policy.

ADB helped bolster RCI through a combined grant and loan
of $102 million to help complete 250 km of road connecting
the Kyrgyz Republic and Tajikistan. This project helped
lower transport costs, not only between the two countries,
but also to and from their neighboring countries, including
the People’s Republic of China (PRC). ADB provided a
further $224 million to complete 125 km of road sections
between Taraz and Korday in Zhambyl Oblast, Kazakhstan.
The road provides faster and more comfortable travel; more
diversified economic opportunities, including in service
sectors such as tourism; and stronger competitiveness in
interregional agricultural and dairy-product markets as local
products reach more distant destinations in larger volumes
and in better condition (see box).

CAREC is exploring further options to rebuild domestic
transport networks, improve cross-border transit corridors,
and create economic corridors to allow the benefits of
economic diversity to flow between countries. At the 13th
CAREC Ministerial Conference, held in the Kyrgyz Republic,
officials launched a pilot initiative for the Almaty-Bishkek
economic corridor. Representatives from the two cities

also signed a memorandum of understanding covering the
service sector.

At the ministerial conference, ADB and other delegates also
reached an agreement to establish the CAREC Institute at
Urumdi in the Xinjiang Uygur Autonomous Region of the
PRC. The institute’s mission is to enhance the quality of

the CAREC Program by generating knowledge and building
capacity to accelerate economic growth. ADB will provide

 

ADB ANNUAL REPORT | 2014technical assistance and administrative
support to the institute during its initial
period of operation.

INCLUSIVE GROWTH THROUGH
EDUCATION AND BUSINESS

ADB works to expand economic
opportunities for the poor and the
marginalized of Central and West Asia, and
to encourage the entrepreneurial spirit of
women in the region.

In the Kyrgyz Republic, ADB supported an
education program that will introduce a
rental scheme to increase the availability of
textbooks to schoolchildren. This program
will also provide more resources to schools
in remote and poor areas.

In Georgia, ADB provided support

to increase public spending on social
assistance programs, pensions, and

social infrastructure. This assistance is
helping increase savings and investments
generated by households, domestic firms,
and government. The program—which
introduces reforms to make the country’s

universal pension system financially
sustainable—aims to ensure equitable
social security for women, particularly
women entrepreneurs running micro, small,
and medium-sized enterprises. It also
encourages more effective delivery

of social services by supporting related
public-private partnerships and
infrastructure projects.

In Armenia, ADB approved a loan of

$49 million and a technical assistance grant
of $900,000 to support the sustainability
of the road and water sectors, and to help
achieve the government’s development
priorities for 2014-2025. This program
employs results-based management

for government. The approach will address
planning, budgeting, implementation,

and monitoring protocols within and
between sectors.

 

 

AN ECONOMY BACK
ON TRACK

ADB provided $165 million
to help build 75 kilometers
of railway between
Mazar-e-Sharif and
Hairatan on the border
with Uzbekistan. In its
first year, the railway
carried 2 million tons of
petroleum and petroleum
products, 540,00 tons

of flour, and 340,000

tons of construction
materials. Total trade
between Afghanistan and
Uzbekistan increased
about 35% in 2012.

In July, the railway received
a US Treasury Department
award for development
impact.

 

CENTRAL AND WEST ASIA

19SAE

The People’s Republic of China, Mongolia

MTR ACTION PLAN:
ADB will support
rapid and inclusive
ee est
etal eter EU
protection,

 

ollowing years of rapid
expansion, economic growth
moderated in the countries of
East Asia in 2014. The People’s
Republic of China (PRC)
achieved steady but controlled economic
expansion, as the government continued
to emphasize the quality, rather than
quantity, of growth. Growth in Mongolia,
while still outpacing global and regional
averages, slowed to single-digit levels.

Rapid economic growth has transformed
the PRC to an upper middle-income
country with significant gains in poverty
reduction and quality of life. The
challenge lies in developing new engines
of growth that will generate economic
growth to benefit all. The country must
address issues such as environmental
protection, inequality, finance sector
regulation, local government debt, and
private investment in state-owned
enterprises.

One positive sign in 2014 was that

the PRC introduced a regulatory
framework for the Shanghai free trade
zone. This will provide a testing ground
for service sector development,

and for liberalizing the finance sector.
To improve capital flows and transfers,
the PRC also doubled the daily trading
band of the yuan, and connected

the stock exchanges of Shanghai and
Hong Kong, China.

In Mongolia, a steep fall in foreign direct
investment, depressed commodity
prices, and delayed mining projects
contributed to the economic slowdown
in 2014. The national currency

MORE THAN

of roads built or
upgraded between
2011-2014

eS
RKS

ANO

 

20

ADB ANNUAL REPORT | 2014depreciated by 13.8% in 2014. A more diversified economy,
essential for job creation, remains a priority to prevent a
return to economic overheating, and to reduce the country’s
reliance on mining revenues.

OPERATIONAL HIGHLIGHTS

In 2014, ADB provided $1.66 billion for 14 loan and grant
projects to East Asia, and $29.41 million for 52 technical
assistance programs. This assistance, together with
$167.48 million in cofinancing, was allocated to transport
(49%), urban and social services (36%), energy (9%), and
natural resources and rural development (6%).

ADB’s program in the PRC is evolving to reflect an emphasis
on innovation, providing added value, and delivering projects
with high development impact. In 2014, lending assistance
of $1.49 billion covered 11 projects across energy, natural
resources and rural development, transport, and urban and
social services.

ADB committed $692.55 million in loans to the PRC’s
transport sector. Part of this funding is supporting an inland
water transport project in Anhui Province, and a project

to make rail travel more energy-efficient and safer for
passengers in Yunnan Province and the Guangxi Zhuang
Autonomous Region. The loans are also helping to improve
urban public transport for commuters in Jiangxi Jian, and
making travel and trade easier for the people of Yunnan Pu’er
through cross-border transport and rural road projects.

ADB has made significant investments in urban development
in the PRC, including $500 million for projects in Jilin, Gansu,
Hubei, and Yunnan. These projects will improve services and
facilities in urban infrastructure, solid waste management,
water supply, environmental pollution control, and flood
management. In Guangdong Province, a commitment

of $100 million is helping to protect water resources and
improve water security.

In the education sector of the PRC, ADB is supporting a
$50-million project for technical and vocational education
and training (TVET) in the Baise municipality of the Guangxi
Zhuang Autonomous Region. This project is helping develop
a flexible and responsive training curriculum that delivers the
skills needed by industry. If successful, it could be replicated
elsewhere across the PRC.

Aside from support for project preparation ($6.79 million),
ADB technical assistance to the PRC in 2014, totaling
$11.18 million, focused on policy and advisory services,
along with capacity development, to support government
policy reform measures and preparation of the PRC’s

13th Five-Year Plan.

ADB provided $168.5 million in sovereign loans for three
projects in Mongolia. A $170-million transport project, of
which $125 million was approved in 2014, is constructing

 

 

EAST ASIA

21293 kilometers (km) of roads that will link
Mongolia’s isolated western region with
the PRC to the south, and with the Russian
Federation to the north. The project will
increase jobs, facilitate trade, and foster
social and economic development in the
region. A loan of $18.5 million will assist
Darkhan, the third-largest city in Mongolia,
to construct a modern wastewater
treatment plant that will benefit more
than 80,000 people and protect the
Kharaa River. ADB also pledged $25 million
to promote technical and vocational
education, helping Mongolians to learn
the skills suitable for jobs in agriculture,
construction, and transport.

Technical assistance amounting to

$9.95 million was provided to Mongolia to
support the energy, finance, and transport
sectors, as well as to improve public sector
management.

WORKING AS ‘ONE’ IN EAST ASIA

During 2014, ADB strengthened its
knowledge-sharing activities in East Asia. It
helped create new knowledge platforms and
hubs that focused on green growth, urban

 

development, transport, TVET, and publicprivate partnerships (PPPs). Assistance
helped stage a knowledge-sharing platform
on PPPs in Beijing, foster an initiative to
exchange information on rural-urban
poverty, and establish an eco-compensation
hub at the China Agricultural University.
ADB also produced 70 knowledge products
and services, and organized 80 knowledgesharing activities, for the PRC and Mongolia
in 2014.

In 2014, the PRC became the first country
to benefit from the “One ADB” approach,
an important element of the Action Plan
that arose from the Midterm Review of.
Strategy 2020. The approach encourages
ADB departments to work together to
create knowledge solutions for developing
members. It also promotes interaction
between ADB field offices to share
knowledge across regions. Utilizing the
“One ADB” approach, ADB provided policy
recommendations in October 2014 to

help the PRC transition to a high-income
country. These recommendations were
discussed ahead of the formulation

of the PRC’s 13th Five-Year Plan, 2016-2020.

ADB is helping construct

293 KM

of roads in Mongolia’s
isolated western region

 

 

22 ADB ANNUAL REPORT | 2014DEVELOPMENT BEYOND BORDERS
ADB continued to support the PRC’s participation in the

Greater Mekong Subregion (GMS) program for economic
cooperation. Loans of $350 million will help improve road
infrastructure and the urban environment in Yunnan
Province, along the GMS North-South Economic Corridor.
Through a memorandum of understanding between the
PRC and Viet Nam, development assistance also aided the
establishment of cross-border economic zones and joint
master plans—boosting trade and investment between the
two countries.

In 2014, ADB provided support for the PRC and Mongolia
to continue to work with other developing member
countries under the Central Asia Regional Economic
Cooperation (CAREC) Program. ADB drove key activities
of the program, which included streamlining customs
processes, administering transport agreements, and
improving the control of animal diseases across borders.
It also helped physically connect the people of East Asia,
via the now-completed international corridor linking
Ulaanbaatar to the PRC border at Erlian, and 293 km

of roads to link western Mongolia to the PRC and the
Russian Federation.

FINDING LONG-TERM ANSWERS TO POVERTY

In 2014, ADB continued its work to raise standards of living
for the people of the PRC and Mongolia, especially for the
impoverished and disadvantaged.

ADB supported a project to better deliver water in the
PRC’s Chaonan District, Guangdong Province, benefiting
about 1.23 million people. It is also helping the poor

in Baishan and Baicheng cities in Jilin Province, by
improving urban transport and water supply. In Yunnan
Province, financial assistance is improving the lives of
the impoverished in three secondary cities of Chuxiong
prefecture, by helping to upgrade flood management,
solid waste management, and other basic urban
infrastructure services.

ADB supports the PRC in developing workforce skills that
meet the demands of its diversifying economy, with training
programs focusing on less developed regions. In 2014, ADB
helped develop a competency-based curriculum for TVET
while also training teachers, and upgrading facilities and
equipment. In tertiary education, ADB helped the Ministry
of Education develop policies to improve the employment
prospects of university graduates. It also supported the
training of caregivers, especially for care of the elderly, in
Yichang, Hebei Province.

In Mongolia, ADB is working to expand the reach of the
finance sector, to help develop micro, small, and mediumsized enterprises. Because these enterprises make up 98%
of all businesses in the country, ADB’s efforts will help

increase trade, raise incomes for emerging entrepreneurs,
and provide jobs.

A grant from the Japan Fund for Poverty Reduction helped
train over 1,400 Mongolian herders in improved pasture
management, to bolster their resilience to climate change
and natural disasters. ADB is also helping to improve
services for Mongolians with disabilities, and expand the
nationwide telemedicine network for the country’s poor.

ADB continued its support for Mongolia’s food stamp
program in 2014. This program helps provide nutritious
food to those regarded as being among the poorest 5% of
the population.

YOUR SAY:

We’re lucky to receive pasture,
livestock, and business training,
as well as financial support, from

the project. We hope this will
generate more income for our
members.

Ts. Battumur discusses an ADB-supported program to help
Eel ee Cages eee Mmm aa ey ol UL

A PATH TO ENVIRONMENTAL SUSTAINABILITY

In January 2014, ADB signed two memorandums of
understanding with the Ministry of Environmental
Protection and the National Development and Reform
Commission in the PRC. These agreements aim to prevent
and manage air, water, and soil pollution, and to devise
innovative approaches to climate protection.

ADB has committed to support a $150-million district
heating project—using low-carbon, low-emissions natural
gas technology—in Hohhot city in the Inner Mongolia
Autonomous Region. It is also providing technical
assistance to develop low-carbon transport in the Ningxia
Hui Autonomous Region, design energy-efficient railway
buildings, and help reduce air pollution in Beijing.

In Mongolia, ADB is also supporting the implementation of
the Integrated Water Management Plan for the Tuul River
Basin, contributing to the water security of Ulaanbaatar
and surrounding areas.

 

 

EAST ASIA

23hile the Pacific

region saw overall

economic growth

accelerate slightly

in 2014, results
among individual countries varied
widely.

 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
   

 

The region’s growth of 5.3% was largely
driven by its two biggest economies,
Leste. Fiji held successful elections in
2014, which contributed to sustained
growth of 3.3% and a positive outlook
in the island nation. Both Tonga and
Solomon Islands were struck by natural
disasters that slowed growth and
burdened public finances in these two
economies.

The small Pacific island economies
remain largely dependent on public
spending to support economic
growth, often financed through official
development assistance. ADB is
supporting fiscal reform programs

to put these economies on a more
sustainable financial footing, along
with structural reforms to encourage
development of the private sector.

Few places in the world are as exposed
as the Pacific to the impact of climate
change and natural disasters, and ADB
is working to develop infrastructure that
can withstand extreme natural events
and sea-level rise. It prioritizes climate
and disaster resilience in its investment
projects, and funds the renewable energy
portfolio to support climate change
mitigation and reduce reliance on

fossil fuels.

  

THAN

17.3 MILLION

  

 

24 ADB ANNUAL REPORT | 2014In 2014, ADB focused on better connecting
the countries of the Pacific. It worked

on linking investments in transport and
communications to the delivery of services
across the region. These efforts are helping
deliver health, education, and financial
services to outer islands and other remote
communities.

ADB also committed in 2014 to an annual
minimum allocation of $3 million from
the Asian Development Fund to its
smallest developing members—Kiribati,
the Marshall on the Federated States"
Tuvalu. The ere will t tackle growth
constraints and increase well-being in
these countries.

OPERATIONAL HIGHLIGHTS

In 2014, ADB approved $185.75 million for
14 loan and grant projects in the Pacific
region along with $26.65 million in technical
assistance for 25 projects. Lending and
grant assistance, supplemented with
$30.94 million of cofinancing, focused on
transport (67.7%), energy (18%), and public
sector management (6.2%).

 

wr Fijians, while Cees Ta)
pen D reached over a re

Eta ed
d Bu coal

Poe aete eae ‘fhe Pa oM aL eN fee ein
water and sanitation project is currently under development.

Following internationally recognized
elections in Fiji in September 2014,

ADB resumed full engagement with the
government, committing $100 million to
support the rehabilitation and upgrade of
roads and ports.

In Timor-Leste, additional financing of
$11.78 million for the country’s major
transport project is continuing the
upgrade and climate-proofing of over

100 kilometers of roads. The project
provides work for many local people,
particularly women, and helps to build a
national network of reliable, safe roads to
reduce travel times and prevent accidents
for the Timorese people.

In PNG, a loan of $187.48 million
supported expansion of Lae Port by
building a tidal basin, a multipurpose
berth, and terminal works. Another loan
of $109 million is helping to improve roads
in PNG’s Highlands region and bolster air
services in the country. These initiatives
aim to link people in poor and remote
areas of PNG to markets and government
services.

 

 

 

 

PACIFIC

25ADB financing of $36.42 million to the Cook Islands, Nauru
Samoa, and Solomon Islands is helping to boost investment
in renewable energy across the Pacific and improve the
reliability of electricity services.

In response to natural disasters in Tonga and Solomon
Islands, ADB acted swiftly to provide $17.94 million in
emergency loans and grants. After floods in Solomon Islands
in April 2014, ADB quickly disbursed a grant of $200,000
from the Asia Pacific Disaster Response Fund. A loan of
$6.61 million and grant of $6.61 million backed up efforts to
reconstruct roads and bridges. In Tonga, ADB responded
to Tropical Cyclone lan in January 2014 by approving an
$8.79-million project, cofinanced by New Zealand to

help reconstruct—with necessary climate- and disasterproofing—the country’s electricity network and schools.

 

ADB continues to work with other development partners,
promoting good governance policy across the region.

In 2014, funding of $12.1 million, including collaborative
cofinancing by New Zealand and the World Bank, was
activated to strengthen fiscal stability in Kiribati.

YOUR SAY:

We no longer have to rely on
kerosene to light our lamps,
and we can use solar power to

recharge our mobile phones.

BY oem ye mice M NOL RN C4 ell
solar panels, discusses the benefits of solar power.

SOLUTIONS THROUGH KNOWLEDGE SHARING

ADB was active in strengthening knowledge sharing
throughout the Pacific in 2014. ADB publishes the

Pacific Economic Monitor, with contributions from other
development partners such as the International Monetary
Fund (IMF) and the World Bank. The publication provides
updates on the economic performance of Pacific countries,
complemented by policy briefs relevant to the region’s
decision makers. Each December, the Pacific Economic
Monitor focuses on fiscal performance.

ADB complemented the publication’s December 2014
edition with a regional knowledge-sharing workshop, held
in conjunction with the Pacific Islands Forum Secretariat,
the Pacific Islands Centre for Public Administration, and
the IMF’s Pacific Financial Technical Assistance Centre.
The workshop brought together 10 of the 14 developing

 

member countries (DMCs) in the Pacific to exchange
information and encourage South-South collaboration in
macroeconomic forecasting and long-term fiscal planning
and modeling.

HUNDREDS OF ISLANDS, ONE VISION

In May 2014, the Pacific Islands Forum leaders endorsed

a new framework to speed up and intensify regional
cooperation and integration (RCI). The framework calls for
greater direct engagement by development partners

to identify regional priorities, and to align support with
regional needs.

ADB is working to address the region’s complex
development issues, promote the development of the
private sector, implement structural reforms of state-owned
enterprises, and improve the Pacific’s trade and transport
links. In 2014, with extensive support from Australia,
business regulatory frameworks were simplified and
harmonized to encourage trade across seven

Pacific DMCs.

 

As part of Timor-Leste’s preparations for membership in
the Association of Southeast Asian Nations (ASEAN) and
other regional initiatives, ADB helped document the legal
and institutional frameworks for trade and investment

in the country, and map the reforms needed for regional
integration.

ADB is supporting RCI through an ongoing investment
program for PNG to upgrade the country’s air services.

A second tranche of $130 million was signed in 2014

to strengthen the safety, accessibility, and reliability of

21 airports owned and operated by the government, and
serving more than 3 million people annually. The project
will open up new economic opportunities in regional
centers by connecting provinces with major domestic and
international markets.

In education, ADB provided $1 million to help the University
of the South Pacific (USP) complete construction on an
expansion of its Kiribati campus. The funds were drawn
from a $19 million loan package provided by ADB to USP

in 2012 to help the university improve learning facilities

and provide innovative information and communication
technology (ICT)-based distance learning programs at
regional campuses. The project will allow more students
across the Pacific to undertake quality academic studies,
and help establish regional education networks.

LIFTING THE PACIFIC OUT OF POVERTY

To reduce poverty in the Pacific, ADB has placed a stronger
focus on creating jobs by expanding business prosperity and
commercial sustainability.

A project to support agribusiness in Samoa is addressing
market constraints and barriers to export. A new regional

 

26

ADB ANNUAL REPORT | 2014facility for business investment was approved in 2014, with
cofinancing by Australia, to help develop small and mediumsized enterprises.

ADB is supporting a number of financially inclusive
initiatives to help low-income households save money to
invest, pay for unexpected expenses, and eventually move
beyond subsistence living. Women and rural residents, who
often cannot access basic financial services, are a particular
focus for this assistance.

To foster inclusive transport services, ADB supported

new interisland shipping in Solomon Islands and Vanuatu
throughout 2014. This assistance is upgrading infrastructure
and establishing schemes to subsidize services for remote
destinations, which would otherwise not be commercially
viable.

Development assistance is also helping implement policies,
regulations, and legislation to improve basic service delivery,
and allow for socially inclusive pricing policies across Pacific
DMCs.

THE VALUE OF THE ENVIRONMENT

In the Federated States of Micronesia (FSM) in 2014,
ADB supported government plans to promote tourism
that benefits the environment while providing jobs

for locals.

In Kiribati, ADB supported the government’s management
of tuna fishing license agreements. The new approach aims
to reduce fishing quotas to sustainable levels in the medium
term, while increasing revenue to help fund public goods
and services.

In several Pacific island economies, scarce water resources
pose severe strains on living conditions. An infrastructure
development project in the FSM improved wastewater
systems and invested in safe and sustainable water supply to
benefit more than 9,500 residents in Kosrae, Pohnpei, and
Yap. A similar water supply and sewerage project in Fiji was
completed in 2014, benefiting around 250,000 residents of
the Suva—Nausori area.

In August, ADB participated in the Third International
Conference on Small Island Developing States in Samoa.
In September, at the Renewable Energy Forum, ADB
pledged support for the expansion of sustainable, reliable,
and affordable energy across the region.

It also affirmed its commitment to renewable energy by
approving a solar project worth $24.28 million for the Cook
Islands. The project is expected to save 1.09 million liters
of diesel consumption every year, and cut carbon dioxide
emissions by 2,930 tons.

 

 

PACIFIC

27outh Asia achieved strong, stable
economic growth in 2014, with
most of the region’s economies
posting impressive gains.

India’s economy grew by 7.4%
in 2014-2015 on the back of increases in
investment and industrial production.
Sri Lanka recorded 7.4% growth driven by
strong external demand and the recovery
of local investment in a low-interest rate,
low-inflation environment. A good harvest,
together with growth in the service sector
and remittances, saw Nepal’s economy
grow by over 5%. In Bangladesh, relative
political stability bolstered business
confidence, helping the economy to expand
by 6.1%. This was in spite of weak monsoons
and a slowdown in exports. Meanwhile,
the economies of the Maldives (with 6.8%
growth driven largely by tourism) and
Bhutan (with 4% growth driven largely by
hydropower production) will need to be
diversified to ensure sustainable growth.

Inflationary pressures, evident in the first
half of 2014 after a spike in food prices,
abated across the region. Supported by
tighter monetary policies in India and
Bangladesh, consumer demand softened,
and prices stabilized at lower levels.

The region’s development challenges
included poor connectivity between
countries, inadequate infrastructure, and
a growing skills gap. To address these
challenges, the South Asia Subregional
Economic Cooperation (SASEC) program
was expanded to include every country in
the region.

 

   

1AN

5 MILLION

  

 

ADB ANNUAL REPORT | 2014OPERATIONAL HIGHLIGHTS

In 2014, ADB supported South Asia with $4.05 billion

for 31 projects and $49.39 million in technical assistance.
Operations focused on areas critical to achieving sustainable
and inclusive growth. These areas included infrastructure,
energy security, urban development, and education and
skills training.

India was the largest borrower in the region at 54% of total
loans, followed by Bangladesh at 22%, and Sri Lanka at 11%.
The value of contracts awarded to implement projects
reached $3 billion (project loans and grants only), and
disbursements amounted to $2.62 billion (including policybased programs). ADB strengthened its relationships with
other development partners, and raised almost $1.14 billion in
cofinancing, which represented 28% of its total operations.

Infrastructure accounted for 79% of ADB assistance to
South Asia.

ADB increased its investment in the transport sector by
$1.63 billion in 2014. This included $500 million for the
region’s first cross-border road project that includes linking
northeast India to Myanmar. In Sri Lanka, an $800-million
project to upgrade rural roads is connecting producers to
markets, and spreading the benefits of recent economic
success. In Bangladesh, ADB contributed $505 million, and
the European Investment Bank cofinanced an additional
$175 million, to improve rail passenger and cargo movements
throughout the country and across the region.

In the energy sector, ADB invested $500 million in clean
energy in India and mobilized $253 million in cofinancing
from the European Investment Bank. ADB also invested
$180 million to expand national grid capacities in Nepal,

and to enable sharing of clean energy in the region and
another $158.5 million in clean energy projects in Bhutan and
the Maldives. The Climate Investment Fund and bilateral
donors provided $83.2 million in cofinancing for clean energy
projects in the Maldives and Nepal. In Sri Lanka, $300 million
of investment is helping to develop clean energy and
improve system efficiency and reliability.

ADB is committed to urban development in South Asia,
approving $500 million in 2014 for a program to undertake
major reforms in the urban sector and improve water
supply and wastewater services in India’s Rajasthan state. In
Bangladesh, it helped improve the resilience of coastal towns
to climate change and natural disasters. In Nepal, ADB is
working to ensure that urban projects are designed to be
more inclusive, through approaches such as output-based
aid and community development. These approaches are
delivering clean water to more people, and expanding job
opportunities for Nepal’s urban poor.

The individual governments of South Asia face three
common challenges in human development: to create jobs,

to address skills shortages, and to improve productivity.
ADB invested $300 million in initiatives to address these
challenges.

In 2014, efforts continued to improve gender equality

in South Asia, with 61% of ADB projects in the region
incorporating elements for gender balance. These included a
high number of projects in education and skills development,
agriculture and rural infrastructure, and urban development.

SHARING KNOWLEDGE TO SHARE REWARDS

ADB not only provides development knowledge to member
countries, but works to ensure this knowledge is shared
within and between countries. In 2014, ADB’s Capacity
Development Resource Centre trained more than 1,300
state and local government officials in India on ADB policies
and procedures. Topics included procurement and contract
management, water management, road safety, agribusiness
infrastructure, construction management, and municipal
accounting reforms.

YOUR SAY:

Before the construction of the
bridge, you had to take a journey
of over 14 hours to reach the

southern plains of Nepal. The
journey takes around 4 hours now.

dee) (Lomeli teh cm Oat elte OMI ge Melk ERAT Teese Caz
MM Nic em aM ta ce M TUM) Nace on tt
ADB-financed Khurkot bridge.

 

Regular publications provide economic forecasts and
macroeconomic analyses to individual countries and the
region. Country-specific reports include the Bangladesh
Quarterly Economic Update and the Macroeconomic Update:
Nepal.

 

In 2014, ADB produced gender-specific reports for

Bhutan and the Maldives. These reports provide a basis

for identifying gender issues in the design phase of project
development, while contributing to country partnership
strategies between ADB and developing member countries.
For the education, energy, transport, and urban development
sectors, tailored videos will help communicate good
practices for creating gender balance.

NEW OPPORTUNITIES FOR REGIONAL STRENGTH

In 2014, the Maldives and Sri Lanka joined existing regional
members in the SASEC program. This opens up promising

 

SOUTH ASIA

29:opportunities for the six developing member countries

of South Asia to collaborate on transport, energy, and trade
facilitation. To support this collaboration, ADB provided a
record $1.2 billion in lending and grant financing to SASEC
projects. Bangladesh, Bhutan, and Nepal acted quickly to
improve trade facilitation, successfully carrying out policy
reforms to modernize their customs departments

a year ahead of schedule. Regional energy cooperation
was underpinned by project preparations for three
hydropower projects, and for a second transmission

line crossing the border between Nepal and India. ADB
also committed to work with the Government of India

to develop the country’s initiative for dynamic economic
and industrial corridors.

GROWTH THAT EMBRACES EVERYONE

ADB builds inclusive growth objectives into all operations in
South Asia. In 2014, ADB backed technical and vocational
education and training programs to help women gain valuable
skills for employment. In the transport and energy sectors,
ADB supported projects that opened up markets for small
businesses in rural areas, allowing them to tap into broader
demand and enjoy higher incomes.

In Bangladesh, ADB is working to expand the power system,
improve energy efficiency, and increase access to education
and health care. A $700-million investment will help connect
450,000 households—including many impoverished ones—
to the power grid, while reducing outages and shortages.
Under a pilot initiative under this project, around 4,000
disadvantaged farming families will benefit from 200 solarpowered irrigation pumps. Another program promoting
inclusive growth seeks to develop a skilled labor force through
better funding for secondary education. ADB support is
also helping to build 12 comprehensive reproductive health
care centers and 26 primary health care centers near

slums and other densely populated areas. At least 30% of

all services, including the provision of vital medicines, are
provided free to the poor. Women are a focus for free health
services, and mobile outreach services are provided weekly
for the homeless and extremely poor. In India, support for
electrification projects in Madhya Pradesh includes training
of 20,000 women to manage microenterprises. The skills
program in Kerala focuses on vocational training and youth
employment. About 60% of ADB assistance in India goes to
lagging states.

In Nepal, projects financed by the Japan Fund for Poverty
Reduction provided business and skills training to 2,000 poor
households marginalized by ethnicity or caste.

ADB also helps achieve inclusive growth for South Asia as
a region. Projects to connect roads in the SASEC region will
upgrade critical regional highway links and two land ports
in Bangladesh, boosting connectivity and trade between
countries. These upgrades will benefit farmers and the
broader economy by increasing trade volumes, improving

 

30

ADB ANNUAL REPORT | 2014traffic flows, and reducing the loss of
perishable goods. By improving customs
procedures, ADB is also streamlining

the movement of goods in and out of
Bangladesh, Bhutan, and Nepal. These
measures will ultimately drive down costs
for farmers, and reduce prices paid by poor
consumers.

PROSPERITY WITH THE PLANET
IN MIND

Over two-thirds of ADB projects in
South Asia contribute to environmentally
sustainable growth.

ADB is helping the Maldives to preserve

the fragile ecosystem on which the country
depends for its tourism and fisheries
industries. A project to increase the capacity
of the wastewater treatment plants that
serve Mahibadhoo and Fonadhoo improved
sanitation for all 571 households on those
islands. Meanwhile, a grant from the

ADB Strategic Climate Fund, combined
with support from the European Investment
Bank and the Islamic Development Bank,

is helping the Maldives move toward more
efficient mini electricity grids based on
renewable energy.

In Bangladesh, ADB is helping address the
impacts of climate change through work
to reduce the risk of flood and riverbank
erosion and improve environmental
infrastructure in coastal towns.

In India’s Karnataka state, ADB is
promoting climate-resilient development
in the urban water supply and sanitation
sector, and integrated water management
in agriculture.

ADB helped Nepal protect its river
watersheds through efficient irrigation

and water management projects. It

also provided technical assistance to
implement an agricultural program
promoting land use that is environmentally
friendly and sustainable.

In Sri Lanka’s mountainous Central
Province, ADB is backing a green
hydropower project on a river near
Moragolla. The project will deliver a clean,
cheap, stable supply of energy to the grid.

 

 

PLANTING SEEDS
OF HOPE IN NEPAL

ADB provided a
$20-million grant

to Nepal to develop
agribusiness and
improve livelihoods for
people in remote, highmountain areas of the
country. The grant aims
to create 7,500 new jobs
by 2017, supporting one
of South Asia’s poorest
areas. In May 2013, Suk
Prasad Sherpa (pictured)
started an apple orchard
in the Mustang district,
investing around
$12,000 in a nursery and
storehouse for saplings.
Today, Suk Prasad
produces between 5,000
and 6,000 apple saplings
per year.

 

SOUTH ASIA

31

CORBISSaas
= Sue and
stoke eign

 

ustaining growth and reducing
infrastructure bottlenecks
were among Southeast Asia’s
key development challenges
in 2014. ADB focused on three
critical areas: public sector management
reforms, requirements in infrastructure
and social services, and mobilization
of cofinancing. ADB maintained policy
dialogue with all its member countries,
and tailored its projects to meet the
development challenges faced by each
country.

Across the region, economic growth
eased, following contractions in
investment, government spending, and
global demand for the region’s exports.

In Indonesia, government policies
aimed to rein in inflation and the
current account deficit. The new
government’s ambitious program to
reduce fuel subsidies, which should

free budget funds for infrastructure

and social development, began in
November 2014. Recovery in exports,
and expanded private consumption and
investment, generated gross domestic
product growth in the Philippines in the
first half of the year. However, growth
was moderated by the slower pace

of government spending and public
construction.

Cambodia saw economic growth ease in
2014, reflecting slower growth in tourism
and exports of garments and footwear,
and rice. In the Lao People’s Democratic
Republic (Lao PDR), economic growth
remained stable. Fiscal problems, which
had earlier led to payment delays, abated

 

 

MORE THAN

tons of greenhouse gas
emissions reduced per
year between 2011-2014

poernct|
WORKS

 

32

ADB ANNUAL REPORT | 2014in 2014, although the country’s fiscal deficit
remained large and public infrastructure
projects faced delays.

Myanmar posted growth that was
stimulated by rising investment. This

rise was attributed to improved business
confidence, higher commodity exports,
rising production of natural gas, tourism,
and credit growth. Meanwhile, an increase
in direct investment fueled Viet Nam’s
economic growth. In the long term,
achieving high rates of growth will require
deeper structural and governance reform.

OPERATIONAL HIGHLIGHTS

Across Southeast Asia during 2014, ADB
provided new lending to governments of
$2.99 billion, supported by $1.6 billion in
cofinancing (including cofinancing under
the ASEAN Infrastructure Fund [AIF]),
and $71.66 million in technical assistance.
This lending was primarily directed to
public sector management (41%), transport
(14%), education (14%), and finance (14%).
Contract awards and disbursement levels
reached $1.79 billion and $1.8 billion,
respectively.

a)

 

ADB approved a new country partnership
strategy with Cambodia. This strategy
focuses on rural-urban-regional links, and
human and social development. Projects
approved in 2014 include a road improvement
project that will rehabilitate 729 kilometers
(km) of rural roads across nine provinces,
giving 620,000 people better access to
markets, jobs, and social services. An urban
water supply and sanitation project will
provide cleaner and safer water to 551,000
people in nine towns, improving public
health, promoting investment, and expanding
employment opportunities.

In Indonesia, ADB approved a loan of

$400 million to support reforms that will
improve public and private investments.
This funding will help the country reach its
average medium-term economic growth
target of between 7% and 9% per year, for
the next 10 years. Meanwhile, an $80-million
sanitation project will improve hygiene for
70,300 urban households.

In the Lao PDR, ADB has provided a loan of
$15 million to help strengthen the country’s
governance framework. The assistance will

 

   

ASEAN CORPORATE
GOVERNANCE
SCORECARD

ASEAN CORPORATE
GOVERNANCE
SCORECARD

To promote transparency
and encourage
investment, ADB and
the ASEAN Capital
Market Forum published
the ASEAN Corporate
Governance Scorecard:
Country Reports and
Assessments 2013-2014.
The Scorecard considers
international best
practices to assess the
corporate governance of
publicly listed companies
in the ASEAN region.

 

SOUTHEAST ASIA

33support reforms in public administration and public financial
management.

An $80-million transport project in Myanmar will bring
people and produce closer to markets, by rehabilitating
54.5 km of roads between Yangon and one of the nation’s
most productive agricultural areas, Ayeyarwaddy Delta.

Through a $350-million program to increase
competitiveness in the Philippines, ADB is helping to

raise the employment prospects of Filipino youth, develop
skills and services in tourism, and reform the country’s
business and investment climate in the longer term.

A loan of $250 million will improve service delivery by local
governments, contributing to inclusive growth.

YOUR SAY:

For a long time after the typhoon,
our classroom was a tent. We got
wet when it rained and hot when

it was sunny. Our classroom
is now repaired and we find it
EN cla RemAULeh A

12-year-old student Honeylette Molina from the
Philippines’ Leyte island

In Viet Nam, ADB is implementing a $320-million program to
help improve the efficiency and transparency of state-owned
enterprises. Another program, with funding of $230 million,
will help lift Viet Nam’s competitiveness through reforms to
banking, fiscal policy, and public sector administration and
accountability. The program will also address state enterprise
management, public investment management, and the
business environment. To improve the reliability of power
supply for businesses and residents of Ha Noi and Ho Chi
Minh City, ADB is financing a $172-million energy project to
install or upgrade 200 transmission lines.

A PARTNERSHIP IN KNOWLEDGE

ADB made significant headway during 2014 to support
knowledge outcomes in Southeast Asia.

In January 2014, ADB organized a high-level knowledge
partnership conference, held in Jakarta, to strengthen its
informational ties with the Government of Indonesia. The
conference identified more effective knowledge solutions for
energy security, skills development, and food security.

A publication was produced titled Unlocking the Potential

for Geothermal Energy, which provides inputs to Indonesia’s
revised geothermal law.

 

The ADB-supported ASEAN Corporate Governance Scorecard
supported the work of the Association of Southeast Asian
Nations (ASEAN) to raise corporate governance standards,
develop an integrated capital market, and increase the
visibility of publicly listed companies to investors.

In May 2014, ADB hosted a regional conference in Manila,
promoting the 3E concept of economic competitiveness,
environmental sustainability, and equity. Attended by 170
delegates, the conference shared the operational framework
for “GrEEEn cities” and showcased urban growth models
that can be replicated across Southeast Asia.

CLOSER REGIONAL COLLABORATION

ADB demonstrated strong support in 2014 for regional
integration in Southeast Asia. It attended the 5th Greater
Mekong Subregion (GMS) Summit, endorsing a pipeline
of 92 priority projects valued at $30 billion. It also
participated in the 6th GMS Economic Corridors Forum,
fostering cross-border economic zones, logistics centers,
and industrial estates.

In 2014, ADB approved $108 million for a regional tourism
infrastructure project that will help create 129,000 tourismrelated jobs across Cambodia, the Lao PDR, and Viet Nam.
Under ASEAN subregional programs, ADB supported
priority projects to enhance regional connectivity. These
projects included work to upgrade and expand roads
through Kalimantan in Indonesia and Mindanao in the
Philippines. Meanwhile, Indonesia, Malaysia, and Thailand
collaborated via a summit to endorse a green city action plan
for Melaka in Malaysia. ADB assisted with the development
of the plan, which will serve as a blueprint for other cities on
economic-environmental balance.

The AIF, which is administered by ADB, cofinanced two
projects totaling $140 million. One project will provide better
sewerage and wastewater treatment facilities in Indonesia;
the other will improve power system reliability and reduce
greenhouse gas emissions in Viet Nam. Myanmar joined the
AIF’s board in 2014, so that all 1o ASEAN member countries,
along with ADB, are now AIF shareholders.

SHARING THE BENEFITS OF GROWTH

In 2014, to help sustain inclusive growth in Southeast Asia,
ADB provided support to disaster-affected communities
and other vulnerable groups.

In the Philippines, ADB approved cofinancing of

$479 million to restore basic social services and rebuild
communities affected by Typhoon Yolanda (international
name Haiyan). This work will rebuild homes and livelihoods
for people in 900,000 households across more than 6,000
communities.

A loan of $300 million will assist the government to
establish an effective senior high school system, enhancing

 

34

ADB ANNUAL REPORT | 2014employment opportunities for youth. This program is
expected to better teach about 5.9 million students over
3 years.

In Cambodia, ADB paved the way for over 40,000 poor
and disadvantaged women to undertake training that will
improve their basic skills and enhance their chances of
gaining employment. It also approved additional financing
to rehabilitate 257 km of rural roads and help 284,400 poor
Cambodians recover from flood damage.

n Indonesia, ADB assistance will help upgrade basic
infrastructure, and create new homes for people living in
the slums of 20 cities, impacting the lives of 670,000
low-income families.

A loan of $21 million will assist livestock farmers in the
Lao PDR to operate commercially. ADB will help improve
animal husbandry and meat processing techniques, while
providing training in accounting, marketing, and the use of
business plans to access credit.

For central Viet Nam, ADB approved $85 million of
additional financing to support the upgrading of about
29,000 hectares of potentially productive land. This funding
is also strengthening infrastructure to increase agricultural
productivity and manage the effects of natural disasters.
ADB supported a project to improve lower secondary
schools in Viet Nam, with a focus on over 640,000 students
rom ethnic minorities. It also supported a microfinance
program to give low-income bank customers access to small
loans that are sustainable and affordable.

 

ENVIRONMENTAL SUSTAINABILITY
IN SOUTHEAST ASIA

ADB continued to support climate change adaptation and
the environmentally sustainable management of natural
resources across Southeast Asia. It helped rehabilitate and
improve the climate resilience of rural roads in Cambodia,
while providing support to a pilot program to improve urban
water supply and sanitation infrastructure in the country’s
Tonle Sap Basin.

In Viet Nam’s two largest cities, Ha Noi and Ho Chi Minh
City, projects will improve energy efficiency, promote traffic
efficiency, and reduce greenhouse gas emissions, with funds
from the Clean Technology Fund.

ADB helped mobilize resources to implement action plans
in Indonesia, Malaysia, and the Philippines under the
Coral Triangle Initiative that will help conserve and
regenerate coastal and marine resources, while enabling
communities to generate wealth.

 

 

SOUTHEAST ASIA

3536 ADB ANNUAL REPORT | 2014s a cornerstone of economic growth ADB also increased the use of risk transfers as a way

throughout Asia and the Pacific, private of attracting third-party institutional capital into
sector development is a primary focus of its investment activities, while better managing its own
Strategy 2020. limited capital.
ADB has long been an important financier ADB introduced several reforms to its private sector
of private infrastructure and financial intermediaries, and operations during the year. As a result, ADB approved
this was highlighted again in 2014. In a landmark year, private sector financing at volumes 19% higher in 2014
ADB approved 25 private sector projects for a total of compared to 2013, with the number of deals at record levels.
more than $1.9 billion, while cofinancing of over $5 billion B-loan syndication activity was also particularly strong,
was generated. As it further expands its engagement mobilizing over $860 million.
with the private sector, ADB will promote inclusive and
environmentally sustainable growth across the region. BOOSTING SKILLS AND SUPPORTING BUSINESS
. . . ADB recognizes that the resources required to plan,
The Midterm Review (MTR) of Strategy 2020 requires prepare, and deliver private investment opportunities can be

ADB to become more active as a project developer, helping
prepare and bring projects to market. In response, ADB
established the Office of Public-Private Partnership (OPPP)
in September 2014. The office provides transaction advisory
services to help countries prepare and deliver bankable
public-private partnerships (PPPs). These partnerships are
essentially long-term contracts between governments and
privately owned companies to build and maintain public
infrastructure. The PPP approach has been adopted globally YOUR SAY:
as a model for delivering high-quality and sustainable
infrastructure projects. However, in developing Asia, the 5 ; 5
use of PPPs has been impeded by a lack of resources to The fundi ng line for housing
prepare appropriate projects for market. The OPPP supports from ADB has made own ing
ADB regional departments in their operations to promote 5 .
and implement PPPs. ADB reinforced its commitment in one’s home not Justa dream but
November 2014 by establishing the Asia Pacific Project
Preparation Facility (AP3F). This facility will provide

assistance to the public sector agencies responsible for Lakshman Silva, Chief Executive Officer of DFCC
preparing and structuring PPPs in developing member a Pana Bank in Sri Lanka

countries (DMCs).

significant for individual governments. It therefore provides
extensive support to help improve the skills of public service
officials who are involved in preparing bankable projects for
private investment. ADB also works to help create business
environments that enhance the commercial viability of
private investment.

EMiceiliaa

ADB's financing assistance to the private sector in 2014
comprised various modalities. These included loans,
equity investments, credit enhancement products such as

 

guarantees to banks, and B loans (funded by other banks). Enhancing Capacity and Sharing Knowledge
ADB is collaborating with the World Bank and the
MORE THAN Inter-American Development Bank to create a globally
recognized PPP certification and credentialing program.
17,900 MW This will help establish professional standards in PPP design

   

of energy generation
capacity installed
between 2011-2014

and implementation for public officials and participants from
private enterprise.

ADB is also providing tailored support to individual DMCs.
In October, it conducted an assessment of PPPs in

Malaysia with the national PPP Unit, sharing international
best practice to support their intended expansion of
infrastructure PPPs, as well as for sharing Malaysia’s
experience with other DMCs in Southeast Asia. In Myanmar,
it is working with the government to lay the foundations

for a national PPP program. In February, ADB approved
technical assistance to the Ministry of Electric Power to help
increase private investment in power generation, along with

 

DEVELOPING THE PRIVATE SECTOR 37support for planning and public debt management. This
means ADB is now engaged in PPP policy development
and project management readiness in every country in
Southeast Asia.

In Timor-Leste, the Pacific Private Sector Development
Initiative (PSD!) worked with the PPP unit to strengthen
the country’s ability to manage projects, particularly those
for water, power, and transport.

 

Creating Positive Environments for Enterprise
Through its support for policy and regulatory reforms,
ADB strives to improve business conditions for private
enterprise in individual DMCs. These reforms include
more secure and transparent business regulations, and
simpler tax and trade policies.

In December 2014, ADB approved the formation of

the Mekong Business Initiative. The initiative, which is
funded by $10 million from the Government of Australia,
will focus on policy advice and advocacy to improve the
business environment in Cambodia, the Lao People’s:
Democratic Republic (Lao PDR), Myanmar, and

Viet Nam. It aims to increase the number of small and
medium-sized enterprises in these countries to 1.5 million
by 2023.

n Indonesia, ADB supported a range of reforms to
improve the country’s commercial environment, including
initiatives to accelerate priority infrastructure projects,
and the establishment of a PPP unit in the Ministry of
Finance.

nthe Lao PDR, ADB assisted the government to develop
a PPP regulatory framework and prepare four prefeasibility
studies in education and health.

 

n the People’s Republic of China (PRC), ADB has
assisted in the preparations for a national law, drafting of
procedures, and guidance on PPPs. These activities are
aimed at increasing business confidence and attracting
more private investment, especially in infrastructure.
ADB is also assisting the PRC to establish a fund that will
provide government financial support to PPPs.

n Nepal, ADB helped the government prepare draft
policy, legislation, and guidelines to build solid regulatory
and institutional frameworks for PPPs. As of December
2014, the government had identified five potential PPPs,
and plans to implement pilot projects to showcase
potential.

Across DMCs in the Pacific, the PSDI has helped reduce
lending risk and expand access to credit. The introduction
of secured transactions and personal property securities
will enable borrowers to use movable or unfixed assets as
collateral for loans. Since 2006, the PSDI has supported

 

 

38

ADB ANNUAL REPORT | 2014the passage of laws in eight Pacific DMCs, six of which also
have established registries for secured transactions. In 2014,
the PSDI designed financial products to expand the use of
frameworks for secured transactions in Timor-Leste and
other Pacific DMCs.

Preparing and Delivering Projects for Private
Participation

To stimulate greater private investment, ADB provides
extensive support to DMCs to identify and prepare viable
and bankable projects, and ensure that well-developed
projects are realized.

ADB support to the PPP Center in the Philippines resulted
in the preparation and award of three national PPP projects
in 2014. As of December, seven projects were under
bidding, while 39 projects were in preparatory phases.
World Economic Forum and G20 reports in 2014 cited the
Philippines as a prime example of how governments can
promote and manage PPPs.

ADB is also backing PPPs for projects that extend

beyond national borders. In April, it provided technical
assistance—cofinanced with the Government of Canada
and International Enterprise Singapore—to enhance
regional project development under the Association of
Southeast Asian Nations (ASEAN). This assistance will also
further efforts to link PPPs with the ASEAN Infrastructure

Fund (AIF).

ADB continues to advise the Government of Mongolia on
the country’s first PPP project, a $1.3-billion heat and power
plant in Ulaanbaatar. In June 2014, a private consortium
agreed with the government to construct, finance, operate,
and maintain the project over a 25-year period. In Central
and West Asia, ADB continues to advise the consortia of
national gas companies working to prepare and tender the
1,800-kilometer Turkmenistan—Afghanistan-PakistanIndia (TAPI) natural gas pipeline project. A milestone was
achieved in November 2014 with the incorporation of the
TAPI Pipeline Company Limited.

ADB has also secured endorsement and support from other
multilateral development banks, international organizations,
and some major national development banks, to develop
jointly project preparation software under the International
Infrastructure Support System. The software will provide
guidance and templates to help the public sector better
prepare infrastructure projects that can attract private
investment.

DELIVERING FINANCIAL ASSISTANCE
TO TARGETED SECTORS

Throughout 2014, ADB continued to support financial
market intermediaries and infrastructure development
in the areas of energy (particularly renewable energy),
water supply and sanitation, transportation, and urban

development. Education and agribusiness also emerged as
focus areas.

The year was notable for projects with strong gender focus.
A number of flagship projects contained measures that
allow women and girls to access more readily education,
employment, and finance. These projects span rural
education and affordable housing finance in India, food
value chain development in Cambodia and India, and
financial inclusion in Tajikistan.

Moving into New Areas
ADB expanded its private sector operations into a number
of new areas in 2014.

It made its first investment in privately operated education,
with a commitment of $2 million to Hippocampus Learning
Centres (HLC) in India. HLC runs preschool and afterschool coaching programs for children in rural India, with
each center supervised by a woman teacher from the

local community. This is a pioneering, low-cost system for
supplementary education in rural areas, where the reach of
formal education has been limited or badly constrained.

In another first, this time in private agribusiness across
borders, ADB committed $16.5 million to support Akay
Flavours & Aromatics, which operates in Cambodia and
India. The company is investing to add value in the supply
chain for spices, from climate-resilient and inclusive
farming models to processing and export. This project aims
to promote regional trade and foreign direct investment

in Cambodia, while reducing rural poverty by creating
opportunities for poor farmers.

During 2014, ADB commenced its private sector operations
in Myanmar, making two significant investments to improve
the country’s commercial infrastructure. It approved total
financial assistance of $120 million—comprising a loan, an
equity investment, a B loan, and a political risk guarantee—
to revitalize about 10 acres of downtown Yangon, the
country’s largest city. The area will become a thriving central
business district located next to the central railway station
and the Bogyoke Market. The development consists of

a hotel with serviced apartments, two office towers,

a retail podium, a residential tower, restoration of a heritage
building, and Myanmar’s first district cooling plant.

ADB also approved a loan of $100 million for connectivity
infrastructure in Myanmar. The project will develop
telecommunications towers, establish cold storage facilities,
and support a logistics fleet company.

For the first time, ADB provided support for a port services
company. It approved a loan of $40 million to Ocean Sparkle,
one of India’s leading port operators, to acquire tugboats,
platform supply vessels, and tug supply vessels. The loan

is expected to boost confidence for private investment in
India’s port operations and maritime infrastructure.

 

DEVELOPING THE PRIVATE SECTOR

39:In the Philippines, ADB approved a loan of $75 million to
GMR Megawide Cebu Airport Corporation to expand and
renovate the passenger terminals of the Mactan Cebu
International Airport. This is the first ADB loan to the
aviation sector in the Philippines, and a landmark PPP for
the country. As the only international airport in the Visayas
region that can handle large numbers of passengers, added
capacity at Mactan Cebu International Airport will create
new employment opportunities in the region.

Expanding Capital Markets and Financial Services
During 2014, ADB intensified its support for micro, small,
and medium-sized enterprises—engines of inclusive growth
and key contributors to poverty reduction. It provided a
$20-million loan to DemirBank in Azerbaijan, a $40-million
loan to Khan Bank in Mongolia, and an $11-million
investment (comprising a loan, equity, and a B loan) to
AccessBank in Tajikistan.

To develop agriculture and agribusiness in India, ADB
provided loans of $200 million each to Axis Bank and

YES Bank. The loans will be used to help provide finance

to poor farming households and women on low incomes

in rural areas. ADB also approved an equity investment of
$40 million in Olympus Capital Asia V Fund, supporting
middle-market Asian companies operating in agribusiness
and food, financial and business services, and environmental
development.

An equity investment of $30 million in Asia Environmental
Partners II is helping to stimulate private equity participation
in environmental finance across Asia and the Pacific, aiding
environmentally sustainable growth in the region.

In India, ADB committed $125 million to Dewan Housing
Finance Corporation to provide loans to low-income
customers, at least half of them women, to buy affordable
housing. This investment will help reduce poverty, create
jobs, and raise standards of living.

In Sri Lanka, ADB is helping to expand access to finance
for infrastructure development, and add to the level of

MORE THAN

$15 BILLION

of trade finance
supported between
2011-2014

 
    

(cc@

2
=

ADB: ANCE
[von

private credit in the banking system, through a direct loan
of $75 million and a B loan of $25 million to Hatton National
Bank. This funding will contribute to inclusive growth and
recovery in post-conflict areas.

Directing Trade Finance Where It’s Needed
Without sufficient finance to support export and import
activities, trade cannot deliver its full potential to generate
economic growth, create jobs, and reduce poverty.

 

In 2014, ADB conducted a study that estimated the global
market gap for trade finance at $1.9 trillion, of which
approximately $1 trillion is required in Asia. Companies
surveyed said that expanding access to trade finance by 15%
would result in 21% higher production and a need to hire 17%
more people.

Through its Trade Finance Program (TFP), ADB works to

close market gaps for trade finance by providing banks with
guarantees and loans that support trade.

In 2014, the TFP facilitated almost 2,000 transactions valued
at over $3.8 billion, with over $2 billion cofinanced by banks,
private insurers, an export credit agency, and International
Enterprise Singapore. Over 98% of TFP transactions were

in countries accessing the Asian Development Fund, and
support was provided to 1,549 small and medium-sized
enterprises, with 246 trade transactions between DMCs.

A report on the TFP released by the Independent Evaluation
Department concluded that the TFP had significantly
contributed to trade in Asia and to the development

of a trade financing sector which would not otherwise

have existed.

Providing Finance for Vital Infrastructure

In 2014, ADB continued to pave the way for the private
sector to participate in core infrastructure projects around
the region.

In the key area of renewable energy, ADB approved an equity
investment of $50 million to ReNew Power Ventures, a
leading developer of wind-generated energy in India. It also
approved a loan of $100 million to ACME Solar Energy to
develop 200-megawatt solar photovoltaic power generation
capacity across several projects in India.

In the conventional energy sector, ADB approved a loan
of $75 million for a 341-megawatt gas power project in
Bangladesh. The project will help alleviate Bangladesh’s
severe power shortage, while reducing greenhouse gas
emissions compared with coal or hydrocarbon power
generation.

To improve wastewater and sewerage for the rural poor in
the PRC, ADB provided a direct loan of $100 million and
a B loan of $200 million to support the construction of a

 

 

40

ADB ANNUAL REPORT | 2014series of small-sized wastewater treatment
plants, and to build associated sewage
pipelines across the country. The project

is focused on rural townships situated
along rivers, with significant environmental
challenges and on other areas sensitive to
climate change.

Fostering Cofinance and Partnership
ADB's private sector operations leveraged
significant commercial resources to
supplement its own pool of capital during
2014. It raised over $5 billion through
cofinancing, including over $2 billion
generated through the TFP. There was
robust growth in syndicated B loans and
parallel cofinancing. ADB’s private sector
operations will continue to play a key role
in mobilizing third-party capital, which is a
strong focus under Strategy 2020.

Leveraging bank and development
partner resources is critical, given limited
ADB capital and the growing needs of
the region. In Georgia, ADB backed the
development of a hydropower project in
the southwestern region of Adjara—its
first commitment to a private energy
project in the country. The project aims
to supply the Adjara region and selected
parts of northern Turkey with reliable

power, alleviating Georgia's dependence on
fossil fuel. ADB approved a direct loan of
$75 million and mobilized $15 million

from the Canadian Climate Fund for the
Private Sector in Asia. It also worked closely
with the International Finance Corporation
and the European Bank for Reconstruction
and Development in cofinancing this
challenging project.

In 2014, ADB innovatively utilized
concessional funding from the Clean
Technology Fund (CTF). In Indonesia,
following the successful financing of

the Sarulla geothermal project in 2013,
ADB approved a loan of $50 million for a
240-megawatt geothermal project across
the Muara Enim, Lahat, and Pagar Alam
regencies of South Sumatra, approximately
225 kilometers from Palembang. In
northeastern Thailand, ADB approved a
loan of $53 million and deployed $30 million
from the CTF for an 80-megawatt wind
farm in the Sap Yai District of Chaiyaphum
Province. The project will further diversify
Thailand’s energy mix, and help the country
meet its clean energy targets.

 

 

 

PPPs: A GLOBAL
PERSPECTIVE

With public-private
partnership (PPP)
becoming an
increasingly effective
means of meeting the
development challenges
of Asia and the Pacific,
sharing knowledge

on PPP experiences is
vital. ADB, together
with the World Bank
and the Inter-American
Development Bank,
has published a

second version of the
PPP reference guide.

It presents a global
overview of approaches
and experiences in PPP
implementation, along
with more extensive case
studies from Asia and
the Pacific and InterAmerican regions.

 

DEVELOPING THE PRIVATE SECTOR

4MTR ACTION PLAN:

ADB will become

amore dynamic,

agile, and innovative
institution. AD! te

es SP le Bee
a >
Bue ake, oes

Détveri pens atlioe
pooh a

ADB ANNUAL REPORT | 2014he Midterm Review (MTR) of Strategy 2020
delivered a resounding recommendation:
that ADB streamline its operations to provide
better service to its member countries.

ADB moved quickly to introduce measures to
strengthen its capacity and effectiveness. It recalibrated
its business model and institutional settings to improve
project implementation, mobilize greater financial
resources, introduce additional flexibility into managing
staff resources, and strengthen knowledge work.

To achieve economies of scale and deliver value for
money, ADB established a working group to improve
project quality assurance and streamline its processes

in financing operations. In July 2014, it launched a new
process for allocating technical assistance, linking
incentives with performance, and increasing transparency.
To improve project readiness, it extended by 2 years the
pilot period of the facility used to quickly disburse finance
to developing member countries (DMCs) for project
development. It updated its corporate results framework,
and is refining its guidelines for results frameworks at the
country and project levels.

ADB further refined its products and processes, which
are expected to enable it to transfer risk to a broader set
of commercial cofinanciers, freeing up existing capital for
new transactions.

ADB is determined to become a more dynamic and

agile institution. In 2014, it moved to reinforce staff skills,
incentives, and human resource practices. Regional
departments began sharing staff to bridge skills gaps,
strengthen teamwork, and ensure that knowledge and
experience is transferred across regions. Field offices,

also known as resident missions, are being strengthened,
too. They will play a larger role in managing knowledge
operations, and have more authority to make decisions on
procurement and disbursements.

ENSURING ADB DELIVERS RESULTS

Development Results

The Development Effectiveness Review (DEfR) process,
introduced in 2008, measures ADB’s progress toward
corporate targets and drives decision making. The 2014
DEfR assessed ADB’s performance through 91 indicators
adjusted to reflect the Midterm Review (MTR) of Strategy
2020 Action Plan and upgrades to the corporate results
framework. It found that ADB’s operational success
continued to rise, and did so mostly within budget.

For the first time, ADB achieved over 80% of its target
outcomes. Activities such as cofinancing, publicprivate partnerships, disbursements, budget efficiency,
project quality at entry, and operational alignment with
Strategy 2020 all improved. The DEfR also found that
implementation delays, and the uncertain financial

 

 

DELIVERING AN EFFECTIVE ORGANIZATION

43Plan Points to Improved
acels eles

In 2014, ADB approved a 10-point action plan for procurement
reform, as an integral part of the Midterm Review of Strategy
2020 Action Plan. The procurement action plan and associated
reforms set out to reduce procurement time, increase
administrative efficiency, and improve project delivery, while
maintaining sound financial oversight. At each step in a project’s
cycle—from country partnership strategy and project concept
to project preparation and contract implementation—risk is
considered and weighed to determine procurement actions.

The reforms, which are now being implemented, provide for
eMC Me) AEC gtk mooie ay Teen MTS Te Le}
Uo Mel mw oLeX eel mace Mie elim alert ceiel
competitive bidding limits and prior- and post-review limits.
Anew administratively efficient post-review method has

been introduced, and procurement decision-making is further
delegated and decentralized to regional departments and field
offices. An online procurement review system has been launched,
and action has been taken to enhance practices in engaging
oe ad oN eRe EMO eM cre LUCA oR aioe

 

A GUIDING LIGHT ON
RENEWABLE ENERGY

On 27 February 2014,
ADB Vice-President
Bruce Davis announced
that ADB headquarters
had switched to using
100% renewable energy.
The offices are now
powered using energy
generated by geothermal
plants in Tiwi and
Makiling-Banahaw,
both of which are on the
main Philippine island
of Luzon, in addition to
solar power generated
by ADB’s rooftop

solar panels. These
geothermal and solar
sources meet the entire
energy requirements of
ADB headquarters.

 

sustainability of many outcomes need
particular attention.

Complementing the DEfR process,

ADB published Together We Deliver

in May 2014. The publication profiles
projects supported by ADB that achieved
strong development results, and outlines
examples of best practice and innovation.

Progress on Global Partnership
ADB is committed to the effective
development cooperation principles
that were agreed at the Fourth High
Level Forum on Aid Effectiveness in
Busan, Republic of Korea in 2011. The
principles highlight country ownership,
focus on results, inclusive partnerships,
transparency and accountability, and
support for fragile and conflict-affected
states. The Global Partnership for
Effective Development Cooperation
(GPEDC) was launched at the 2011
meeting and provides a framework to
track progress on the principles.

ADB tracks its progress using two
methodologies from the GPEDC
framework: operations aligned with
country-owned results frameworks, and

 

sovereign operations using country (public
financial management and procurement)
systems. Almost all ADB operations
approved in 2014 were clearly linked to,

or contributed to, output indicators in
country sector results and targets

of DMCs’ national development plans.
The use of country systems captures

the use of public financial management
systems and country procurement systems.
Due to growth in policy-based operations,
ADB’s performance on this indicator
improved to 55% overall in 2014 from

50% in 2013, but still below the baseline

of 59%.

During 2014, ADB contributed to the

first High-Level Meeting of the Global
Partnership for Effective Development
Cooperation in Mexico, which reaffirmed
effective development cooperation
principles and highlighted new priorities—
South-South cooperation and knowledge
sharing, domestic resources mobilization,
middle-income countries, and business as
a partner in development. ADB published
Global Partnership for Effective Development
Cooperation: What it Means for ADB, which
served as ADB’s report after the Mexico
meeting.

 

44

ADB ANNUAL REPORT | 2014Transparency and Disclosure

ADB improved its transparency in 2014, and this was
recognized in the Aid Transparency Index, which measured
the transparency of 68 of the world’s leading donor
organizations. ADB’s ranking jumped to fifth in 2014, up
five places compared with 2013. ADB was the top-rated
multilateral development bank in the index, with its
transparency measure increasing from about 57% in 2013 to
83.8% in 2014.

As well as disclosing new categories of loan documents in
2014, ADB rolled out an upgraded tracking system to capture
ADB responses to information requests received via its
website. It also provided staff with updated guidance on
implementing disclosure requirements.

STRENGTHENING STAFF CAPACITY

Human Resource Management

In 2014, ADB adopted a range of new measures to

ensure that its DMCs are serviced by the most talented

and motivated professionals available. The new talent
management initiatives included increased use of social
media for recruitment, focused outreach and recruitment to
field offices, streamlined staff evaluation periods, and more
specific managerial selection. ADB also enhanced succession
planning and introduced renewable fixed-term contracts

and 360-degree feedback for senior positions. It conducted
an annual talent review exercise to better assess staff
performance and potential, and established a structured skills
audit to identify gaps in existing organizational skills.

ADB is also strengthening its field offices. It is implementing
outposting arrangements, and establishing regional hubs
staffed with specialists in safeguards, social development,
procurement, and disbursement. It is also building a

more gender-balanced, diverse, and inclusive workplace,
through principles included in all human resource policies
and programs.

Learning and Development

ADB continued to develop its staff, to meet business needs
and for personal growth. In 2014, 119 internal programs
were conducted, attended by 2,195 staff. Enhancing
leadership and management skills was a priority. Some
programs aimed to develop new managers, supervisors,
mission leaders, and mission team members, while

an orientation program for new directors and country
directors was also launched. Other training programs
aimed to reduce risks in procurement, improve project
implementation, and respond to financial reporting and
audit requirements. ADB also introduced online programs
on leadership, and diversity and inclusion. During the

year, ADB provided 42 specialized programs and related
activities to support its regional operations and maximize
knowledge sharing among DMCs. These events were
attended by 248 staff from various ADB field offices across
the Asia and Pacific region.

Safeguards
ADB worked with DMCs in 2014 to strengthen their legal
frameworks and institutional capacity on safeguards. It also

 

DELIVERING AN EFFECTIVE ORGANIZATION

45promoted the sharing of knowledge on managing safeguards
among member countries. A total of 118 projects were
screened and reviewed for potential impacts related

to the environment, involuntary resettlement, and
indigenous peoples. ADB conducted orientation seminars
to improve staff’s ability to address sensitive issues relating
to safeguards. It held two thematic workshops: one on
assessing and mitigating biodiversity impacts in projects;

the other on improving environmental management
planning and implementation. At the country and project
levels, ADB provided training to DMC officials, implementing
agencies, and project management units on implementing
and monitoring safeguard plans and frameworks. It also
carried out activities with key development partners to help
reduce the costs of safeguard compliance at the country and
project levels.

MAKING THE MOST OF ADB RESOURCES

Internal Administrative Resources

Through new efficiency and cost-reduction measures,
ADB's administrative expenses grew only slightly in

2014. Net internal administrative expenses (IAE) totaled
$528.44 million, including administrative expenses for the
Independent Evaluation Department. The total represents

a utilization rate of 88.3% against the original budget of
$598.39 million. The budget carryover of $11.97 million, which
is 2% of the net IAE budget, brought the net IAE after budget
carryover to $540.4 million, representing a utilization rate of
90.3%. Savings were realized mainly from staff costs; staff
development and relocation; business travel; consultants;
and other administrative expenses such as communications,
office occupancy, office supplies, contractual services,
insurance, depreciation, and miscellaneous expenses.

The net IAE budget for 2015 is $617.7 million. Modest
additional resources of 3.5% over the 2014 midyear budget
estimate are required to effectively implement the MTR.
Action Plan, but over half of this additional allocation is
expected to be covered through efficiency measures. The
2015 budget also includes an annual capital budget of
$8.8 million to fund cyclical capital expenditures.

Risk Management

ADB maintains a corporate culture that is acutely risk aware.
It implements business processes that allow departments
and offices to monitor, mitigate, and manage the specific
risks associated with their operations. In 2014, in line with its
increased activity in the private sector, ADB paid particular
attention to underpinning its management of credit risks
associated with private lending. It devoted substantial
resources to improving the credit process for private sector
transactions, implementing a new technology platform for
credit risk management, and launching a new operational
risk management approach across the organization. ADB
also provided technical assistance to financial institutions in
Central Asia and the Pacific to expand their knowledge and
capability in risk management.

Audit

ADB’s Office of the Auditor General (OAG) provides
independent and objective audit and advisory services
designed to improve ADB operations. It provides assurance
that internal controls designed to manage risks and achieve
ADB's development objectives are operating efficently and
effectively. It also plays a key role in evaluating and monitoring
implementation of ADB operational and strategic policies.

t issued 19 audit reports in 2014, covering sovereign operations,
nonsovereign operations, risk management, treasury,
information technology, and finance and administration.

t monitored the implementation of audit recommendations,
and validated the actions of business units to mitigate risks.

The OAG also completed 16 advisory engagements on internal
processes, provided advice on the audit requirements of
donors and cofinanciers, and participated in key committees.
ADB departments and offices consult with OAG for advice on
anew process or for training. It also collaborated with external
agencies on professional practices in internal auditing, and
aunched an internal auditing apprenticeship program.

n August 2014, the OAG hosted the first forum for heads of
internal audit for the Philippines’ Association of Government
nternal Auditors.

Integrity and Anticorruption Activities

ADB proactively addresses any corruption in activities it
inances, supports, or administers. In 2014, it blacklisted 139
individuals or organizations for integrity violations. During
2014, ADB held 55 training events on integrity, and developed
14 knowledge products to share insights from integrity
investigations and procurement-related reviews.

 

ADB staff and external stakeholders are doing more to prevent
and report integrity concerns. In 2014, the number of reports
by ADB staff of possible integrity violations reached 89, while
reports by external parties increased to 132. In April, ADB
hosted the 5th International Financial Institutions Private
Sector Integrity Conference, which was attended by

35 participants from the International Monetary Fund, the
World Bank, regional banks, International Finance Corporation,
Multilateral Investment Guarantee Agency, Council of Europe
Development Bank, European Investment Bank, and European
Investment Fund. ADB led discussion on policies, processes,
and approaches for ensuring integrity in private sector
operations.

Administrative Services

ADB has invested in providing its staff with safe, secure, and
comfortable workplaces that respect the natural environment.
In February 2014, ADB announced that it would use 100%
renewable energy to power its headquarters, preventing
approximately 7,800 tons of greenhouse gas emissions by the
year’s end. Other green initiatives and conservation programs
in 2014 saved around $100,000. Since 2004, the organization

 

46

ADB ANNUAL REPORT | 2014Xcel ele iN ee LeLL|
on 10 Years of Feedb

 

has saved $1.1 million by reducing its consumption of
electricity, water, paper, and generation of solid waste.

The modernization of air-conditioning and elevator systems
will result in annual savings of about $650,000 in electricity
and maintenance costs. New models for business travel
and food services, and the phased implementation of

an electronic requisition and management system, are
expected to produce savings of $1.2 million. ADB achieved
ISO 22301:2012 certification in April 2014 for meeting
business continuity management requirements and
standards.

About the Third Atrium: The Third Atrium of ADB
headquarters was officially opened on 11 November
2014. The new building provides 31,000 additional square
meters of office space and facilities. While it reflects the
architectural character of the main building, its carbon
footprint is significantly lower and environmental impact
is minimized. Features include increased natural lighting;
rainwater harvesting and roof drainage; a skylight that
generates electricity; solar panels on the roof deck; energyefficient air conditioning, lighting, and elevators; native
plants with minimal watering needs; and drip irrigation.

Information Technology

In 2014, ADB improved and upgraded its information and
communication technology (ICT) systems and knowledge
base to meet the recommendations of the MTR of Strategy

2020. Implementation of wireless services in headquarters,
and e-mail access on personal mobile devices, allowed staff
to effectively access and share information. Systems were
deployed to make project procurement faster, and to provide
online access to administrative services. ADB decentralized
operations to field offices by optimizing ICT connections
between field offices and headquarters, ensuring fast,
accessible, reliable, and secure exchange of information.

It also provided training to field office staff to improve

ICT knowledge and make ICT use more productive. ADB
conducted the ICT Week 2014 knowledge-sharing event,
bringing together ADB staff, aid and development specialists,
and technology experts.

Mutual Understanding

The ADB ombudsperson promotes collaboration among
ADB staff, providing informal help to resolve workplace
issues. In 2014, more than 150 staff sought assistance from
the ombudsperson to resolve concerns. To raise awareness
of the service, the ombudsperson made presentations to
all departments within headquarters and each field office.
He also met periodically with the ADB President and senior
management to provide feedback on emerging workplace
concerns. The ombudsperson made presentations on best
practices at the International Ombudsman Association
Annual Conference and the United Nations and Related
International Organizations Ombudsman and Mediators
Group meeting.

 

DELIVERING AN EFFECTIVE ORGANIZATION

47ACKNOWLEDGMENTS

Board of Directors Working Group on the Annual Report 2014

Richard Sisson (Chair); Hideo Fukushima; Gaudencio Hernandez, Jr;
René Legrand; Michael Strauss; Wenxing Pan *

* Replaced Alternate Director Guoxi Wu on 2 December 2014.

The Board of Directors Working Group on the Annual Report 2014
would like to thank all ADB departments and offices for their
contributions to this report.

COVER PHOTO: India’s chili farmers will reap the benefits of a
$16.5-million loan from ADB to one of the country’s leading spice
producers, which will help the company expand their products
and markets. CREDIT: Rakesh Sahai/ADB

Every effort has been made to ensure the accuracy of the data used
in this publication. Variations in data in ADB publications often
result from different publication dates, although differences may also
come from the source and interpretation of data. ADB accepts no
responsibility from any consequence of their use.

By making any designation of or reference to a particular territory or
geographical area, or by using the term “country” in this document,
ADB does not intend to make any judgments as to the legal or other
status of any territory or area.

In this publication, “$” refers to US dollars.
© 2014 Asian Development Bank

ISSN 306-8370
Publication Stock No. FLG147007

Printed in the Philippines

Asian Development Bank

6 ADB Avenue, Mandaluyong City
1550 Metro Manila, Philippines
adbpub@adb.org

www.adb.org

Subscriptions to ADB’s Annual Report are available to reference
libraries and institutions. To subscribe, e-mail adbpubs@adb.org

&

Annual Report 2014 is printed using vegetable oil-based inks
on recycled paper.

i Scans |
Brel Uae re cogs

DPN erate ee ula crc)
Saco uNs- Wut M aire)
= SOC eran
Integration Ful id
aah
Cae

Nene al one
by Top Countries, 2013-2014
eet uel ere aero s
Nonsovereign Approvals, 2014

Exscaed tet a7 Were eur!
Other Concessional Cofinancing, 2014

iz
Disbursements
Number of Projects Under

(eee Meath
Circulated

Fund, and Other ae Watiireks (Gane
2012-2014
feetie es
Operations by Developing. ieee
Country by PCR Year, 2005-2014
peru TaN
ia

2005-2014

LEAL} Results for Nonsovereign_
ig Me

Member Countries
Diittea etc led

and Consulting Services, 2014 Project/
Program Loans, Grants, and Techni

eederadineearum eer uemereutes Af
Technical Assistance Operations

Pid eT= ees Sele UT

[eae reer ee and prea 2015
PrP ens eekr heme manent tka

eid eee mae PsN enn

Netra rire keener

} ANNUAL |
REPOR RT

ASIAN DEVELOPMENT BANK.aR al-mascieamenearlallaeer ke
ADB too must change.

ADB President Takehiko Nakao speaking at
ADB's 47th Annual Meeting in Astana, Kazakhstan in May 2014.