ANNUAL REPORT 2012CONTENTS

 

MESSAGE FROM THE PRESIDENT
BOARD OF DIRECTORS
FINANCIAL REPORT CARD
CHAPTER 1

Responding to the Needs of Asia and the Pacific
16 CHAPTER 2
Regions
16 Central and West Asia
20 East Asia
24 Pacific
28 South Asia
32 Southeast Asia

36 CHAPTER 3
Developing the Private Sector

42 CHAPTER 4
Delivering an Effective Organization

on FN

USB CONTENTS

FINANCIAL REPORT

Management’s Discussion and Analysis
Overview
Ordinary Capital Resources
Special Funds
Grant Cofinancing
Appendix: Condensed Management
Report Balance Sheets

Financial Statements
Ordinary Capital Resources
Asian Development Fund
Technical Assistance Special Fund
Japan Special Fund
Asian Development Bank Institute
Pakistan Earthquake Fund
Regional Cooperation and Integration Fund
Climate Change Fund
Asia Pacific Disaster Response Fund

OPERATIONAL DATA
ORGANIZATIONAL INFORMATION
ADB MEMBER FACT SHEETS

ASIAN DEVELOPMENT BANK
MANILA

8 April 2013

Chairman of the Board of Governors
Asian Development Bank

Dear Mr. Chairman,

In accordance with Article 39 of the Articles of
Agreement of the Asian Development Bank and
Section 13 of its By-Laws, | hereby submit to the

Board of Governors, on behalf of the Board of Directors,
Annual Report 2012, which includes the activities of

the Special Funds. Annual Report 2012 also includes

the financial statements prescribed in Section 15

of the By-Laws.

Sincerely,

Bindu N. Lohani

Ranking Vice-President and Acting Chairman
of the Board of DirectorsADB AT A GLANCE

WHO WE ARE

 

 

An Asia and Pacific region
free of poverty

 

To help its developing members
reduce poverty and improve.
their living conditions and
quality of life

 

* Governments

* Private sector

* Nongovernment organizations

* Development agencies

* Community-based organizations
* Foundations |

 

 

In pursuing its vision, ADB’s
main instruments comprise
loans, technical assistance,
grants, guarantees, equity
investments, and policy dialogues.
Although most lending is

in the public sector—and_

to governments—ADB also
provides direct assistance to
private enterprises of developing
countries through equity _ '
investments, guarantees,

and loans. Its AAA credit

rating helps mobilize funds:

for development.

 

 

OUR STRUCTURE |

President la ~
Haruhiko Kuroda ;

Headquarters
Manila, Philippines

  
   
 
 
 
   
 

Founded
1966 ADB’s ownership profile
Members
48 UNITED
Regional STATES
members
Nonregional Ade TRAS
members
SHARES OF
REMAINING
62 MEMBERS
Field offices

3,045

Total employees

ASIA'S POVERTY
CHALLENGE
Two-thirds of

the world’s poor
live in Asia

  
   
 
     
  

OUR
STRATEGY

We are committed
to reducing poverty
through ...

Regional

integration
Inclusive
economic

growth
Environmentally
sustainable growth
What we promote

* Private sector development/
Operations

* Good governance and
capacity development

* Gender equity

* Knowledge solutions

¢ Partnerships

Key areas of operation

¢ Infrastructure
¢ Environment, including
climate change
¢ Regional cooperation
and integration
¢ Finance sector development
* Education

HOW WE
HELPED IN 2012

ADB assistance totaled

$21.57 billion

including $13.30 billion financed
by ADB and $8.27 billion
in cofinancing

   

   
  
 

.
ADB assistance by...
REGIONAL _
$0.48 billion | CENTRALAND
. WEST ASIA
$6.28 billion
SOUTHEAST ASIA
$7.32 billion
. REGION,
PACIFIC a
$0.22 billion”
= ou ASIA
EASTASIA 5.03 billion
$2.24 billion
AGRICULTURE AND
MULTISECTOR  NATURALRESOURCES
$0.71 billion—, $1.30 billion
|
|
WATER SUPPLY AND i HEU CATION
OTHER MUNICIPAL $0.31 billion
INFRASTRUCTURE \
‘AND SERVICES ENERGY
$1.36 billion $4.91 billion
TRANSPORT AND
INFORMATION AND
COMMUNICATION
TECHNOLOGY
$5.02 billion
PUBLICSECTOR
MANAGEMENT —~ FINANCE
$1.64 billion 7 — $3.59 billion
INDUSTRY AND TRADE HEALTH AND
$2.66 billion SOCIAL PROTECTION
$0.08 billion

 

Board of Directors Working Group on the Annual Report 2012
Andrew Collins (Chair),* Hideo Fukushima, Maureen Grewe,**
René Legrand, Siraj S. Shamsuddin, Guogi Wu * Publisher
Ann Quon * Managing Editor Andrew Perrin * Production
Managers Wickie H. Mercado, Miguel Paulino * Editorial
Bruce Heilbuth, Sandra Lodoen, Ma. Theresa Arago, Tuesday
Soriano, Anima Slangen * Design Anthony Victoria, Edith Creus,
Fred de Jesus, Jenina Alli * Cover and Design Concept Real Design
Associates * Information Graphics Businesswriters & Design +
Photo Credit ADB, unless credited otherwise.

* Richard Sisson replaced Andrew Collins on 13 February 2013.
** Maureen Grewe was appointed Chair on 12 January 2013, replacing
Andrew Collins in that capacity.

© 2013 Asian Development Bank

Every effort has been made to ensure the accuracy of the data
used in this publication. Variations in data in ADB publications often
result from different publication dates, although differences may
also come from source and interpretation of data. ADB accepts no
responsibility from any consequence of their use.

By making any designation of or reference to a particular
territory or geographic area, or by using the term “country” in this
document, ADB does not intend to make any judgments as to
the legal or other status of any territory or area.

In this publication, “$” refers to US dollars.

ISSN 306-8370
Publication Stock No. FLS124974

Printed in the Philippines

Asian Development Bank

6 ADB Avenue, Mandaluyong City
1550 Metro Manila, Philippines
www.adb.org

& The Annual Report 2012 is printed using vegetable oil-based
inks on recycled paper.ANNUAL REPORT 2012

ASIAN DEVELOPMENT BANKMESSAGE FROM THE PRESIDENT

 

Asia is now the growth engine of the global economy. Despite wellpublicized troubles elsewhere, the region’s economic fundamentals
remain strong. Its rise is also one of the world’s most successful
development stories. As a whole, the Asia and Pacific region has
already achieved its 2015 Millennium Development Goals for
reducing gender disparities in education, containing HIV and
tuberculosis, and increasing access to safe drinking water.

The Asian Development Bank (ADB) aspires to help create
a better life, a better world, for the poor and disadvantaged of Asia
and the Pacific. Yet in spite of the region’s good progress, much work
remains to be done.

Sixty-one percent of the world’s slum dwellers now live
in Asia, where some 828 million people struggle on less than
$1.25 a day. Environmental degradation has become so widespread
that half a million Asians die each year because of pollution. Growth
has been accompanied by food insecurity, depletion of natural
resources, and rising inequality.

In the past 2 decades, the drivers of Asia’s economic success,
such as new technology, globalization, and market-oriented
reforms, have served to create disparities within and between Asian
countries. In some countries, the richest 1% of households account
for close to 10% of total consumption.

Confronting this rising inequality is a complex challenge. The
widening gap is not only in income. Inequality of opportunity and
access to public services is also prevalent, and a crucial factor in
widening income inequality.

As world growth patterns shift and demand for Asian exports
weakens in the traditional markets of the United States and Europe,
it is more important than ever for economies in the region to
rebalance their growth models, diversify, build regional demand,
and increase the collective purchasing power of their people.
Regional cooperation and integration, the process by which national
economies become more interconnected regionally, can play an
important role in narrowing the income and opportunity gaps and
lifting people from extreme poverty.

2 > ADBANNUAL REPORT 2012

That is why cross-border cooperation and economic
integration is a key part of ADB’s long-term Strategy 2020.

With ADB support, the subregions of Asia and the Pacific
are becoming increasingly interconnected through transport,
energy, and telecommunications networks, and policy reforms
that facilitate trade and investment. The reopening of Myanmar
in 2012 presents a tremendous opportunity for further
pan-Asian integration.

ADB's operational agenda is directed at assisting the region to
address many other critical challenges. For example, we aim to help
policy makers balance economic expansion with more inclusive
policies, because inequality of opportunity not only can dampen the
poverty reduction effect of growth but make even strong growth
unsustainable.

We support developing member countries in giving the poor
and disadvantaged access to health care, education, and job
opportunities so they can contribute to and benefit from growth.
We are also addressing food security and issues relating to climate
change, as they have the greatest impact on the poor.

As environmental damage accompanying Asia’s rapid
economic expansion worsens, it is clear that the current growth
path is not sustainable. We therefore seek to embrace environmentally sound, sustainable policies that maintain our region’s
growth potential now and for the future. Promoting gender
equity is another key goal. If the talents and economic potential
of women are not harnessed, Asia’s poverty reduction goals will
not be met.

To meet the ever-growing demand for assistance, ADB’s
operations in 2012 totaled $21.57 billion. Of this amount,
$13.30 billion was financed by ADB and Special Funds, and
$8.27 billion by cofinancing partners. Meanwhile, ADB’s cofinancing
operations continue to extend the impact of our development
assistance.

ADB assistance is especially critical to help poorer member
countries achieve their development needs. We are grateful to ourdonor-shareholders for their 2012 commitments to the

Asian Development Fund. The generous replenishment of
SDR7.9 billion ($12.4 billion)—an increase of 11.1% (9.5% in

US dollar terms) over the previous replenishment—will help us
fully implement our long-term strategy to help Asia’s poorest.

The region has huge development investment needs.
We estimate that emerging Asia will need $8 trillion in
infrastructure finance through 2020 to support current levels
of economic growth. Most of this will have to come from
the private sector, and we have more clearly defined our
financing role, seeking to leverage resources with greater
efficiency through cofinancing, public-private partnerships,
and private sector involvement. Moreover, we have increased
the effectiveness of the financial instruments at our disposal
by linking them to the dissemination of knowledge.

We must strengthen these directions by adjusting our
traditional lending role to offer a full Finance++ menu (finance
plus leverage plus knowledge).

By continuing to grow sustainably and inclusively while
seeking new ways to work in collaboration, Asia and the Pacific
can reduce poverty and contribute to worldwide prosperity and
stability. With our shareholders and partners, we look forward to
redoubling our efforts to ensure that this becomes a reality.

Mee

Haruhiko Kuroda
President and Chairman
Board of Directors

an 2
Q in

Management Team

From top left: (Vice-Presidents) Bindu N. Lohani,
Xiaoyu Zhao, Lakshmi Venkatachalam,
Stephen P. Groff, Thierry de Longuemar;
(Managing Director General) Rajat M. Nag;
(The Secretary) Robert L. T. Dawson

 

MESSAGE FROM THE PRESIDENT 3.BOARD OF DIRECTORS

 

The Board of Directors is responsible for the overall direction
of ADB operations, including the approval of policies, loans,
grants, and guarantees. As their representative, the Board
plays a vital role in ensuring that ADB’s shareholders guidance
is implemented.

In its ongoing efforts to ensure ADB remains an effective
and dynamic development partner for developing member countries
(DMCs), the Board initiates changes and reforms within ADB and in
its operations to address and respond to the challenges facing Asia
and the Pacific.

For ADB to provide assistance to its DMCs effectively, it must
optimize the management of its financial resources. To this end,
the Board analyzes ADB’s annual financial statements, budget and
borrowing program, work program and budget framework, and
the salaries and benefits of staff. It approves the ADB budget and
submits the accounts for each financial year for the approval of the
Board of Governors at each annual meeting.

The Board’s work is supported by six committees: Audit,
Budget Review, Compliance Review, Development Effectiveness,
Ethics, and Human Resources.

The Board meets as often as the business of ADB requires.

In 2012, it held 48 formal meetings and 27 informal seminars.
Together with ADB Management, it participated in a 1-day retreat
in October to discuss knowledge management, ADB's role in

the middle-income countries, and the future role of the Asian_
Development Fund (ADF).

Members of the Board make several trips around the region
annually to get firsthand views of ADB projects, operations, technical
assistance, and policy dialogues, and to meet with senior government
officials, development partners, private sector leaders, and other
stakeholders. This year, a group visited Vanuatu and Tuvalu from
29 May to 7 June. Another group visited Indonesia from 24 to
30 September, and a third group visited Pakistan and Sri Lanka
from 17 to 29 October.

In December, the Board appointed a new vice-president
in charge of administration and corporate management.

From left to right: (front row, Directors) Micheline Aucoin; Anthony Baker; Jér6me Destombes; Gaudencio Hernandez, Jr.; Ashok K. Lahiri; Robert M. Orr;

Kazuhiko Koguchi; Maurin Sitorus; Yeo Kwon Yoon; Maliami bin Hamad; Mario Sander; Zhongjing Wang; (back row, Alternate Directors) Christina Wedekull,

Andrew Collins, René Legrand, Siraj S. Shamsuddin, Bounleua Sinxayvolavong, Maureen Grewe, Hideo Fukushima, C.J. (Stan) Vandersyp, Wilson Kamit,

Khin Khin Lwin, Guogi Wu. Not pictured: Alternate Director Richard Edwards.

4 ADBANNUAL REPORT 20122012 Highlights

The Board of Directors continued to oversee the implementation
of Strategy 2020—ADB’s paramount strategic framework to guide
all its operations to 2020—as it deliberated and took decisions

to improve ADB’s responsiveness, development effectiveness,
and accountability.

In response to ongoing major reforms by the Government
of Myanmar toward a democratic system and market-based
economy, the Board endorsed an interim country partnership
strategy that aims to help ensure the country follows a path of
inclusive and sustainable growth. The Board provided guidance to
ADB Management as it worked with the government, the private
sector, and other development partners to formulate the partnership
strategy for development and poverty reduction in Myanmar, where
ADB has had no operations since 1988.

The objective of the interim strategy is to develop a comprehensive strategy that will allow Myanmar, one of the poorest
countries in the world, to share in the region’s dynamic economic
growth and integrate more closely with the region.

To continue assisting the poorest and most vulnerable
countries in the region, Board members attended the donors’
meeting on the 10th replenishment of the ADF (ADF XI) held
in Manila in March. The meeting, the last of a series of three that
began in 2011, concluded with donors agreeing to a $12.4 billion
replenishment of the ADF. The replenishment covers ADF XI
operations from 2013 to 2016 and represents an increase of 9.5% in
US dollar terms from the fund’s previous ADF X 4-year period.

In June, the Board adopted the ADF X| Donors’ Report,
which contains the main understanding and recommendations
reached at the replenishment meetings, and agreed to submit it
along with the Board of Directors’ Report to the Board of Governors
for consideration. ADF XI included intensive discussion and
consultation about the need to establish the Disaster Response
Facility (DRF) for ADF countries, which are particularly vulnerable
to natural disasters that can undo development gains and threaten
their ability to reduce poverty. Donors and ADB agreed to pilot the
DRF from 2013 to 2016 to help these countries respond effectively
and quickly to natural disasters. In line with the objective of Strategy
2020 to mainstream disaster risk management and reduction,
and provide early and medium-term disaster responses, the Board
approved the piloting of the DRF, with effect from 1 January 2013.

Strategy 2020 acknowledges the importance of accountability,
participation, and transparency in ADB’s operations and activities.

To further enhance ADB's accountability, the Board approved
the revisions to the Accountability Mechanism Policy that were
proposed in the 2-year Board~-Management review of the policy.
The changes are expected to improve the accessibility, credibility,
efficiency, and effectiveness of the mechanism, which was
established in 2003 to give people affected by ADB-assisted
projects a forum to seek solutions to problems and report any
alleged ADB noncompliance with its operational policies and
procedures.

Strengthening ADB’s commitment to transparency and
inclusion, the Board appointed three transparency experts to
the Independent Appeals Panel that was established under the
revised Public Communications Policy. The new policy, which
became effective in May, refines disclosure requirements for
ADB documents.

To support ADB's shift toward greater development
effectiveness, the Board discussed and suggested factors to consider
during the comprehensive review of ADB's results framework. The
framework is a performance management tool adopted in 2008 to
help ADB monitor and improve its business to achieve the goals of
Strategy 2020. ADB expects to adopt the revised results framework
in early 2013.

The Board also discussed and noted the Work Program and
Budget Framework 2013-2015, a 3-year rolling operational plan to
achieve ADB’s strategic objectives, as set out in Strategy 2020.

The Board provided guidance on the proposed piloting
of an ADB results-based financing modality that would support
government-owned sector programs and link disbursements directly
with the achievement of program results. The Board will review the
policy paper in 2013.

A country partnership strategy (CPS) describes ADB’s
strategic approach in a country, aligned with both the country’s
development strategy and the corporate strategic priorities of ADB.
The CPS identifies operational areas from Strategy 2020 within the
framework of a government's national development plan. In 2012,
the Board endorsed seven CPSs: the People’s Republic of China,
Indonesia, Kazakhstan, Mongolia, Solomon Islands, Uzbekistan
and Viet Nam.

In 2012, total approvals by the Board, including loans, grants,
equity investments, guarantees, the Supply Chain Finance Program,
and technical assistance, totaled $13.30 billion. Cofinancing of ADB
operations totaled $8.27 billion. The Board also approved seven
multitranche financing facilities totaling $2.73 billion.

 

BOARD OF DIRECTORS 5In 2012, ADB’s operations totaled $21.57 billion, of which technical assistance cofinancing, totaled $13.61 billion. Nonsovereign

 

 

 

$13.30 billion was financed by ADB (ordinary capital resources operations, including cofinancing, totaled $7.96 billion.
[OCR] and Special Funds Resources) and $8.27 billion by Disbursements totaled $8.59 billion, an increase of
cofinancing partners. Sovereign operations, including official and $326 million (3.95%) from 2011.
($ million) 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012
10,344 16,911 14,813 15,396 13,609
Loans 8,602 12,778 10,410 11,005 10,611
Equity Investments - - - 150 Grants* 707 924 952 614 697
Guarantees = a 200 = Se
Technical Assistance 188 191 171 138 146
Direct Value-Added Cofinancing® 846 3,019 3,081 3,489 2,155
Official Cofinancing 766 2,958 2,933 3,279 2,009
Technical Assistance Cofinancing 80 61 148 210 146
1,830 3,477 4,122 6,319 7,962
Loans 1,297 438 1,035 1,600 1,107¢
Equity Investments 103 220 235 89 131
Guarantees = a 500 417 403
Supply Chain Finance* 2 5 = S 200
Trade Finance Program - 850 - - Technical Assistance 1 12 2 9 5
Direct Value-Added Cofinancing® 429 1,957 2,350 4,205 6,117
Official Cofinancing - - - = 19
Commercial Cofinancing 425 1,956 2,349 4,204 6,097
B Loans 425 276 320 200 200°
Parallel Loans - 417 479 1,623 3,341
Trade Finance Program Cofinancing - 1,263 1,549 2,381 2,344
Guarantee Cofinancing‘ - - - - 87
Risk Transferé = = = = 126
Technical Assistance Cofinancing 4 1 1 1 0
TOTAL 12,174 20,389 18,935 21,716 21,571

 

-=nil, 0 = less than $50,000.

Note: Totals may not add up because of rounding

* Refer to investment grants.

» In 2011, the definition of direct value-added (DVA) commercial cofinancing was clarified by providing detailed criteria for qualification of DVA cofinancing. The figures for 2009-2012
reflect the new definition.

Includes $35 million investment in debt securities.

Supply Chain Finance is a program that provides guarantees and debt financing (both without government guarantee) through partner financial institutions to support payments
throughout the supply chain.

Includes a local currency complementary loan of $100 million

For loans provided by third parties and not fully guaranteed by ADB, such as partial credit guarantees or partial risk guarantees, the portion of loans that is not guaranteed by ADB

is considered as net DVA cofinancing and reported in the year of signing the guarantee agreements.

® This refers to the amount of ordinary capital resources allocation relief as a result of risk transfer arrangements, whereby a third party assumes risk under a guarantee or loan provided

by ADB. The amount of allocation relief depends on the risk rating and nature of the counterparty.Authorized and subscribed capital stock amounted to $163.5 billion
and $163.1 billion, respectively. Other resources in OCR in the
form of revenue and net realized gains amounted to $1.4 billion,

of which $770.5 million was generated from the loan portfolio,
$407.0 million from the investment portfolio, and $182.9 million
from equity investment and other sources. Resources in the form
of contributions and revenue in ADB’s Special Funds totaled

about $0.6 billion. These included the Asian Development Fund
of $0.6 billion, Technical Assistance Special Fund of $47.6 million,
Japan Special Fund of $0.2 million, Asian Development Bank
Institute of $19.0 million, Pakistan Earthquake Fund of $0.4 million,
and Climate Change Fund of $0.1 million.

ADB also raised $13.2 billion in medium- and long-term
funds through public bond issues and private placements in eight
currencies. Public offerings amounted to $9.0 billion and private
placements totaled $4.2 billion. Of the public offerings, $5.25 billion

was raised through three US dollar global benchmarks, the remainder
through issuance across various markets, including Australian dollar,
Brazilian real, New Zealand dollar, Norwegian krone, and pound
sterling. Among its private placement offerings, ADB continued

to issue thematic bonds, raising $263 million in water bonds and
$343 million in clean energy bonds, bringing the cumulative
thematic bonds issuance to date to about $1.5 billion equivalent.

In addition, ADB raised $5.7 billion equivalent in short-term
borrowings through its Euro-Commercial Paper (ECP) Program.

At the end of 2012, only $1.8 billion of ECP borrowings were
outstanding. ADB also continued to pursue its objective to
contribute to the development of local bond markets and

provide the appropriate local currency financing for its borrowers.

In 2012, ADB’s Treasury Department created the Treasury

Client Solutions Unit to allow it to be more responsive to client
needs in relation to prudent financial management and local
currency capabilities.

 

 

($ million) 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012
Ordinary Capital Resources
Authorized Capital 54,890 166,179 163,843 163,336 163,512
Subscribed Capital 54,890 60,751 143,950 162,487 163,129
Paid-in Capital and Reserves 15,269 15,1762 15,878 16,534 16,420
Outstanding Debt 35,672 42,063" 51,822 58,257 64,279
Asian Development Fund 33,479 31,973° 32,651 33,055 33,346

 

* Includes reclassification relating to Due from Members of $142.2 million as of 31 December 2009 from Assets to Capital and Reserves under Nonnegotiable, Noninterest-bearing

Demand Obligations on Account of Subscribed Capital.

From 2009 onward, amount includes unamortized discounts/premiums, transition adjustment, translation adjustment, and Accounting Standards Codification 815 adjustment on

swapped borrowings.

© Includes reclassification relating to Due from Contributors of $2,185.6 million as of 31 December 2009 from Assets to Fund Balances under Nonnegotiable, Noninterest-bearing

Demand Obligations on Account of Contribution.RESPONDING TO THE NEEDS
OF ASIA AND THE PACIFIC

The year 2012 was one of continued difficulty in the world economy
as the United States recovery remained weak and the euro area fell
back into recession. Against this backdrop, growth in developing Asia
and the Pacific slowed from 7.3% in 2011 to 6.1% in 2012. Nevertheless,
Asia continued to show resilience and to lead global growth.

Developing Asia today accounts for one-third of global output
and contributes to more than half of global economic growth. Asia’s
rapid growth in recent decades has led to a spectacular decline in
income poverty in the region, yet it remains home to two-thirds of
the world’s poor. According to the most recent data, more than
800 million Asians still live on less than $1.25 a day and about
17 billion survive on less than $2 a day. Poverty reduction remains
an unfinished agenda.

In addition, the region is confronting the challenge of rapidly
rising inequality. The gap between Asia’s rich and poor has widened
significantly in the past 2 decades. In many countries, the richest
1% of households account for close to 10% of total consumption,
and the top 5% account for more than 20%. The Gini coefficient,

a measure of inequality, has increased from 39 to 46 in developing
Asian countries.

The gap is not only in incomes but also in access to basic
social services. For example, school-age children from households
in the poorest income quintile are up to five times as likely not to be
enrolled in primary and secondary school as their peers in the richest
quintile. Infant mortality rates among the poorest households are
10 times higher than the rates among affluent households.

The region’s environment also faces serious threats.

As countries in developing Asia continue to grow, their increasing
energy demand and rising carbon emissions are straining an already
fragile environment. Demographic changes and rapid urbanization
have serious implications for development in the region. Difficult
choices are looming at the nexus of the food, water, and energy
sectors, particularly as agriculture and energy compete for declining
water resources.

Asia must continue to grow, but in ways that are more inclusive
and sustainable. To help lagging countries share in the region’s
development and rebalance and sustain regional and global growth,
Asian economies must deepen integration. This process is already
occurring and gaining momentum through enhanced cooperation
between governments, firms, and people. There is huge potential for
improved trade, infrastructure, and financial links between subregions
such as South Asia and Southeast Asia, particularly following the
opening up of Myanmar, as well as for South-South cooperation
between Asia and Latin America and Africa.

To help its developing member countries (DMCs) meet the
challenges, in 2012, ADB continued to focus on Strategy 2020's
three development agendas of inclusive growth, environmentally
sustainable growth, and regional integration. Operations were
concentrated in five core areas: infrastructure, environment, regional
cooperation and integration, finance sector development, and
education. In other areas, such as health, agriculture, and disaster
and emergency, ADB maintained selective operations in close
partnership with other agencies.

To help address the challenges facing ADB’s poorest
DMCs and despite difficulties in traditional donor countries,

Asian Development Fund (ADF) donors agreed to a successful
replenishment. The $12.4 billion ADF XI replenishment in 2012
represents an increase of 9.5% in US dollar terms over the previous
replenishment. ADF XI will provide critical financial support to fight
poverty in ADF recipient countries over the period 2013-2016.

Ensuring the Poor Are Not Left Behind
While continued growth for Asia remains essential for poverty
reduction, the pattern and quality of growth are equally critical.
Strategy 2020 emphasizes inclusive growth to help ensure that the
poor and disadvantaged are not left behind.

Since 2007, ADB has worked with DMC governments to help
strengthen their capability for diagnosing and analyzing constraints to

Asia’s rapid growth is causing a widening gap between rich and poor that threatens to undermine

the region’s pace of progress. ADB’s Asian Development Outlook 2012: Confronting Rising.
Inequality in Asia, published in April, explores how to confront swelling income disparities

and suggests fiscal policy measures, interventions to address challenges in lagging regions, and

priorities for more employment-friendly growth. Download at adb.org/publications

 

8 ADBANNUAL REPORT 2012‘AFP.

 

 

Highway to Regional Trade

Route 9, which runs between Savannakhet Province in the eastern Lao People’s Democratic Republic
(Lao PDR) and Viet Nam, was once a potholed impediment to trade. But a new all-weather road project,
cofinanced by ADB and the Government of the Lao PDR, has reduced travel time to 3 hours from 9 hours,
bringing a flood of investment to Savannakhet and benefiting local businesses. The newly paved Route 9
is providing opportunities beyond agriculture in the form of restaurants, guesthouses, hotels, and shops
on an increasingly busy conduit for regional trade.

inclusive growth. These country diagnostic studies helped determine
the choice and sequencing of the assistance program in relation to
government priorities, ADB’s comparative advantage and resources,
and the interventions of other development partners. In 2012, country
diagnostic studies were completed for Indonesia and Papua New
Guinea, and similar studies were initiated for Bhutan, Cambodia, the
Maldives, and Thailand. ADB’s country partnership strategies (CPSs)
increasingly emphasize the importance of inclusive growth.

ADB has initiated measures to strengthen the monitoring of
inclusive growth in its operations. The ongoing review of its Results
Framework has proposed several indicators to effectively capture
ADB's contribution to inclusive growth. (See Chapter 4, Delivering an
Effective Organization, on page 42.)

Inclusive growth has three interrelated pillars under Strategy
2020. First, high, sustainable growth is needed to create and
expand economic opportunities. Second, broader access to these
opportunities is required to ensure that members of society can
participate in and benefit from growth. Third, social protection
systems must be strengthened to prevent extreme deprivation.

 

Pillar 1: Creating and Expanding Economic Opportunities

Asia’s experience has shown that sustained economic growth is

the most effective way to end widespread poverty. But no country
has sustained economic growth without significant investments

in infrastructure and human capital. Better transport, a skilled
workforce, and more reliable energy infrastructure are vital for the
production of goods and services. A stable finance sector and sound
regulatory regimes are also crucial to enable greater private sector
participation to help drive growth.

Transport. Extensive, efficient infrastructure services are essential
drivers of economic growth and sustainable poverty reduction.
ADB's support in the transport sector focused on facilitating trade,
reducing business costs, and creating economic opportunities

and jobs. In the People’s Republic of China (PRC), an urban
infrastructure improvement project in Fuzhou, Jiangxi, will finance
the creation of a 12.2-kilometer (km) bus rapid transit system, an
urban transport hub at the new Jiangxi Fuzhou Railway Station,
river rehabilitation and greenway development, and construction of
station access roads.

Additional financing for a roads improvement project in the
Indian state of Bihar will scale up the highway upgrading component
of the original project from 356 km to 610 km, optimizing access
to the state highway network. A state road sector project in
Chhattisgarh will upgrade about 916 km of state roads to better
connect rural areas to the national highway network and improve
linkages with markets and job opportunities. ADB also supported
the development of the north-south railway line to help improve
accessibility and trade between Turkmenistan and its neighboring
countries. Along with support for institutional capacity, the project’s
key outputs include signaling, power supply and telecommunications
systems, and installation of maintenance and safety equipment.

Energy. Energy investments improve productivity and
competitiveness. A power system expansion and efficiency
improvement program in Bangladesh will help to increase energy
security for increased productivity and competitiveness through new
investments in power generation, transmission, and distribution.

A solar energy project in Bangchak will help to accelerate and expand

RESPONDING TO THE NEEDS OF ASIAAND THE PACIFIC 9PROMOTING RESILIENCE ret ree

COOPERATION Mi D Wein bh.

 

 

Loon Reel eget
iro) ee ee Rae neeiee
BuatceLer ool etal Meso Ue ROMs Lel Coy Mio)
Rietasecnreraar Uren borders. ADB PEE) Eleniced
femme “peck poms Ca

 

cae: Cee : def
ciher came POPC al eae”
eens a OE Cate oe

ae pee

  
 
 
 
 

soa Dateline TAO Pe

MRC DA nae

= a Ss
Te

 
  

  
 

 

Thaila Triangle. Jap n yanvaaiiacs
cee _ eae es
in meal IG i
Pe) a

 

g ee hans CeCe
jana

Hes Fe rat Fits ean ars
ae the Pacific-Lat oi ieee

  

    

 

      

 

io ere OuT
Deed iene ratic al
sa cep (eC solel eee
ee
ce

 
 

oe

prec tele ekg per

  
   

 

eee avaeen
eee Eee el

 

  
 
 
 
 
 
 

  

acces oboe eaiiiruay aime)

Republic of Korea (ASEAN+3) Sea
Mee ecRonc aeaT eal eee net
ee ool

     
   
 

See

 
 
 

 

eo ci ae , Bete lean es Loin
E eee

 
 

Peal tothe Ce
Meee bce. Cee ne

te eae
See eat

i te lca ab ee

1e bedrock of regionalThe Greater Mekong Subregion (GMS) Economic
Cooperation Program celebrated 20 years of
existence in 2012. Since 1992, the countries of the
subregion—Cambodia, the People’s Republic of China,
the Lao People’s Democratic Republic, Myanmar,
Thailand, and Viet Nam—have actively participated
in the GMS. The GMS Economic Cooperation
Program, which helps member countries increase
connectivity, improved competitiveness, anda
greater sense of community (the 3Cs), is regarded
as a model for regional partnerships in Asia and

the Pacific.

ADB plays a multifaceted role as financier,
provider of technical and advisory support,
secretariat and coordinator, honest broker supporting
subregional dialogue, and catalyst for reaching
consensus on common issues. At the end of 2012,
ADB, development partners, and GMS countries’
governments had invested $15.5 billion in GMS
projects, and recorded many successes.

 

 

 

 

20 YEARS OF GMS

Increased connectivity and integration under
GMS have contributed to improvements in the
economic performance of countries in the subregion,
where growth has averaged close to 8% per year in the
past 2 decades, one of the fastest rates in the world.
The high growth rate has helped reduce poverty levels.
The openness ratio—the ratio of total trade to gross
domestic product at current prices—has increased
dramatically in almost all GMS countries.

Although it accounts for only 6% of total GMS
trade, growth in intra-GMS trade has been dramatic at
22% per year between 2000 and 2009. Foreign direct
investment levels have increased more than tenfold
in most GMS countries. Growth has been helped by
improved infrastructure, with road density (kilometers
of road relative to land area), for example, more than
doubling in some countries.

The GMS will be guided in its third decade
(2012-2022) by a new Strategic Framework, endorsed
by the GMS Summit in Myanmar in 2011.

 

RESPONDING TO THE NEEDS OF ASIAAND THE PACIFIC 11AFP

 

 

Breaking with Tradition in Nepal
An ADB-supported skills-for-employment program is helping disadvantaged women in Nepal build careers

in occupations once reserved for men. The project, supported by a $20 million ADB loan, has enabled a

number of institutions to provide training and skills development for women, members of the marginalized

Dalit caste, and other disadvantaged people. It was designed to ensure at least 50% of trainees are women
and 25% are Dalit. About 61,000 people will have completed training by the end of the project.

private investments in clean energy infrastructure in Thailand. In
the Kyrgyz Republic, a power sector rehabilitation project will help
improve energy supply by increasing the reliability of national and
regional power systems.

Training and Education. Investment in technical and vocational
education and training (TVET) and tertiary and higher education
will help expand economic opportunities by addressing the growing
demand for better and more relevant labor market skills. ADB
initiatives in this area included ongoing support for TVET in the
Kyrgyz Republic, tertiary-level skills development in Indonesia, and
greater opportunities for higher education through information
and communication technology and distance learning in the South
Pacific. A major ADB study, Higher Education in Dynamic Asia, led
to the publication of eight monographs dealing with crucial issues
concerning higher education. ADB also published a book on skills
for inclusive and sustainable growth in the region, and hosted an
international skills forum.

Finance Sector. Support for the finance sector will help develop
sounder and more efficient financial markets to encourage longerterm investments in infrastructure and growth. ADB is helping the
Kyrgyz Republic, Indonesia, and Viet Nam to improve the environment for finance sector development. In the Kyrgyz Republic, ADB
is providing policy, capacity-building, and advisory support, and a
small and medium-sized enterprise (SME) facility. In Indonesia,
ADB is helping to strengthen regulatory oversight, deepen the
capital market, and increase long-term savings through a broadened
investor base. In Viet Nam, a robust microfinance sector is being
promoted through an improved policy and regulatory environment.

12 =ADBANNUAL REPORT 2012

Ongoing support is also being provided for the ASEAN+3 Bond
Market Forum, which includes support to harmonize bond standards

 

and market practices.

Private Sector Development. ADB recognizes the importance of the
private sector in generating greater economic growth and expanding
economic opportunities. In 2012, initiatives included policy reforms
to improve the enabling environment for the private sector in the
Kyrgyz Republic, Mongolia, Palau, Samoa, and Timor-Leste, and
support for public-private partnerships (PPPs) in Bangladesh, the
Kyrgyz Republic, and Viet Nam. ADB’s private sector operations in
2012 also included investments to help develop the commercial
banking sector in the Kyrgyz Republic and the housing finance
market in Sri Lanka. Equity investments were provided in the
Philippines for infrastructure upgrading. A full discussion on ADB’s
work in the private sector in 2012 is provided in Chapter 3.

Pillar 2: Broadening Access
Access to economic opportunities, including jobs, must be made
more inclusive to ensure that all can participate in and benefit from
growth. This requires improvements in and expansion of basic
services and infrastructure. Microfinance and small enterprise
development is needed to provide greater livelihood and job
opportunities, and agricultural support is important to ensure food
security. Inclusive access also requires support for reforms that
promote the participation of disadvantaged and excluded groups,
including women.

Basic and secondary education is needed to break the
cycle of poverty and broaden access to economic opportunities.
ADB continues to support higher-quality and greater accessto basic and secondary education. In Cambodia, it supported
reforms to reduce dropout school rates and enable children from
remote areas to attend secondary school. In the Philippines,

ADB is helping to build new preschool classrooms in impoverished
rural communities.

Health is vital to development, productivity, and social
inclusion. In 2012, ADB expanded operations in the hospital
sector in Mongolia and in urban health services in Bangladesh;
supported the prevention of HIV/AIDS and communicable diseases
for migrants and remote populations in border areas of the PRC
(Yunnan), the Lao People’s Democratic Republic (Lao PDR),
Myanmar, the Philippines, and Viet Nam; and continued to build
regional capacity for engaging the private sector, including support
for PPPs. ADB also conducted a regional PPP Health Conference,
produced health-related studies, and engaged in policy dialogue ona
number of health issues in Southeast Asia.

Improved infrastructure is needed to enable greater access
to basic services, including connecting people to markets, mitigating
against health-related risks, and creating opportunities for the
poor, all of which promote inclusive growth. ADB’s infrastructure
investments continue to emphasize socially inclusive design. For
example, ADB links transport projects with HIV/AIDS initiatives
and labor schemes and addresses social dimensions of increased
connectivity, particularly for regional cooperation.

In the transport sector, ADB supports expanded networks
to improve access in both rural and urban areas. For example, an
investment program in India to improve rural connectivity will create
about 9,000 km of all-weather roads, connecting about 4,200
remote communities to markets and services. A sustainable urban
transport project in Bangladesh will develop a 20-km bus rapid
transit corridor, providing affordable access to 100,000 passengers
daily, 30% of whom will be women.

In the energy sector, support is being provided to expand
access to electricity and other forms of energy for 3.2 million
households. Projects that provide increased access to energy include
aremote communities renewable energy development project in
the Lao PDR, a renewable energy for telecom networks project
in Solomon Islands, and an investment alliance for infrastructure
development in the Philippines.

To broaden access to safe drinking water and basic
sanitation, ADB continues to support improved water supply and
sanitation services. Under the Water Financing Program, it seeks to
sustain an annual water investment of $2.0 billion-$2.5 billion during
2011-2020. Based on total approved lending from 2006 to 2012, the
expected number of beneficiaries is 190 million people. Water and
sanitation projects approved in 2012 included a project for water and
wastewater management improvement in Greater Colombo,

 

Sri Lanka. This program aims to improve environmental
management and quality of life.

ADB's support for micro and small and medium-sized
enterprises (MSMEs and SMEs) aims to broaden access to
economic opportunities through policy reforms, capacity and
advisory assistance, and longer-term credit lines to address key
constraints to doing business. In 2012, ADB supported MSME
development in Armenia, Bangladesh, the PRC, the Kyrgyz Republic,
and the Maldives. Support in Armenia included policy reforms,
advisory support, capacity building, and credit lines with a focus on
women entrepreneurs. In the Kyrgyz Republic, ADB continues to
help women entrepreneurs grow their businesses through expanded
access to finance and capacity-building support. In the Maldives,
ADB is providing support to enhance the capacity of women
micro- and small entrepreneurs and improve business support
infrastructure as well as strengthening the legal and institutional
framework for MSME development. In the PRC, ADB is supporting a
microfinance wholesale lending facility, which will improve access to
finance for MSME and poor households in the central and western
regions. In Bangladesh, ADB is supporting the establishment of a
credit facility to promote energy efficiency and conservation by
MSMESs in the brick kilns sector.

Agriculture and food security are important for inclusive
growth. Since the food price crisis of 2008, food security has
become a serious public concern in Asia and the Pacific, where
hunger and malnutrition remain major challenges. ADB continues
to support food security in the region through investments and
dissemination of knowledge. Food security-related investments
amounted to more than $2 billion in 2012, with more envisaged
now that several regional and country partnerships have made
food security commitments. Ongoing knowledge support includes
establishing a regional emergency reserve and trade forum for
rice within the Association of Southeast Asian Nations, the PRC,
Japan, and the Republic of Korea (ASEAN+3); piloting of innovative
technology to produce more food with less water; and financial
engineering for developing agriculture and food value chains.

Gender mainstreaming is emphasized in ADB projects to
promote equality and women’s empowerment across all sectors
and to support inclusive growth. ADB continued to integrate gender
considerations in projects and monitor results to ensure that women
derive benefits from growth. Knowledge work is ongoing to provide
recommendations for improving gender equality in the labor market,
particularly in Cambodia, Kazakhstan, and the Philippines. ADB
also intensified efforts to improve its capacity to collect and analyze
gender data.

For the second consecutive year, ADB met and surpassed
gender mainstreaming targets set in the corporate results framework

ADB began reengagement with Myanmar in 2012, assigning staff missions in Yangon and
resuming technical assistance operations for capacity-building and institutional support.
An ADB delegation led by Stephen P. Groff, Vice-President for East Asia, Southeast Asia, and

the Pacific, visited Myanmar in June to meet with officials, the first extended visit by ADB
senior management since the country began undertaking reforms. Read more at adb.org/news

 

RESPONDING TO THE NEEDS OF ASIAAND THE PACIFIC = 13for 2012 showing strong and consistent performance in promoting
gender equality in operations for the past 3 years.

In 2012, ADB developed Gender Tool Kits on Energy and
Public Sector Management, and staged learning events such as the
ADB-AusAID Mekong Gender and Transport Workshop in Ha Noi
in July, to address gender mainstreaming in the harder sectors. To
highlight gender concerns in particular areas, high-level seminars
were held on Gender Equality and Food Security, and The Price
is Not Right—The Economic and Social Costs of Gender-Based
Violence to Development in the Asia and Pacific Region.

Implementation of the Gender and Development Plan of
Action 2008-2012 was completed in 2012, with progress achieved
in country partnership strategies; lending operations, policy dialogue,
and support to DMCs; and organizational effectiveness. To sustain
ADB-wide gender performance, ADB began preparing a new
Gender Equality and Women’s Empowerment Operational Plan with
approval targeted for 2013. This operational plan sets out strategic
directions and a guiding framework for increasing gender equality
in the region and delivering better outcomes by 2020. New gender
indicators were proposed for the ADB Corporate Results Framework
to more rigorously track its contribution to gender equality in
the region.

The region’s progress toward meeting the Millennium
Development Goals (MDGs), particularly among Asia’s poorest
and most vulnerable DMCs, remains a challenge, especially in health
and nutrition. However, ADB investments continue to help DMCs
make advances. With the 2015 target set for achieving the MDGs
only a few years away, ADB’s regional MDG partnership with the
United Nations Development Programme and the United Nations
Economic and Social Commission for Asia and the Pacific produced
the annual MDG report for 2011/2012, Accelerating Equitable
Achievement of the MDGs: Closing Gaps in Health and Nutrition
Outcomes. The report tracks the progress made by DMCs in reaching
the goals and highlights the importance of providing equitable access
to key infrastructure and affordable health services. Increasing
inequity in Asia and the Pacific was discussed at subregional
consultations on the Post-2015 Development Agenda led by ADB
and the MDG partnership.

Commitment to the MDGs is also reflected in ADB’s
knowledge support to its DMCs. In 2012, it led several capacity
development events that discussed issues such as improving public
sector management and service delivery to achieve the MDGs, and
improving the collection and analysis of sex-disaggregated data.

 

Pillar 3: Preventing Extreme Deprivation
For growth to be inclusive, it must incorporate social protection,
including social safety nets, to prevent extreme deprivation. This

requires strengthening of a range of policies, programs, and schemes
in labor markets, social insurance, and social assistance.

In 2012, ADB began work on a Social Protection Operational
Plan to provide directions on social protection-related financing,
knowledge solutions, capacity building, and partnerships. ADB
published Social Protection for Older Persons: Social Pensions in Asia
and Pensions Systems in East and Southeast Asia: Promoting Fairness
and Sustainability. It also collaborated with the International Labour
Organization, the Organisation for Economic Co-operation and
Development (OECD), and the OECD Korea Policy Centre to
develop a Social Protection Index, and strengthened the statistical
capacity of DMCs to monitor and report on social protection
programs. In addition, ADB continues to support communitydriven development. A regional conference and cross-learning visit
were organized and five country reports were published to support
knowledge and capacity development activities for DMCs.

Some projects approved in 2012 incorporated social protection components. These included increasing access of the poor and
marginalized groups in the labor market through skills development
and TVET projects in Indonesia and the Kyrgyz Republic.

 

Environmentally Sustainable Growth

Environmental sustainability is central to ADB’s strategic agenda.
The Asia and Pacific region needs to shift to sustainable
infrastructure, invest in natural capital, strengthen environmental
governance and management capacity, and address climate change
for a future of sustainable growth.

To this end, ADB continues to support development of clean
and renewable energy sources critical for green growth. In 2012, it
invested in clean energy to provide 1,250 megawatts of renewable
energy generation capacity, save 871 terawatt-hours of electricity
per year and 72,000 terajoules of fuel per year, and reduce annual
greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions by 16 million tons carbon
dioxide equivalent. The Seventh Asia Clean Energy Forum, themed
Accelerating Low-Carbon Energy for All, held in June, drew more
than 800 delegates. ADB's solar rooftop project was inaugurated
during the forum, showcasing its commitment to clean energy. The
Fourth Asia Solar Energy Forum in India was held, with the goal of
developing more than 3,000 megawatts of solar power. In the PRC,
an energy efficiency and environment improvement project will help
to reduce the emissions of GHGs and other pollutants in Shanxi
Province by introducing district heating in four cities and expanding
the gas distribution network in another. It will save 85,390 tons of
coal equivalent per year and reduce emissions by 254,379 tons of
carbon dioxide equivalent per year.

ADB is scaling up operations to reduce GHG emissions
through more sustainable modes of transport. In 2012, ADB

ADB’s annual Asia Clean Energy Forum serves as a platform for sharing knowledge on new

developments in clean energy. At the seventh event in the series, held at ADB headquarters
Tamla aaNet (CIAL MUR eeCCM (Aen CMe sete AMR ML MAAN ARTA AECL aC)

shared experiences and forged partnerships in advancing clean energy solutions for the
region. Read more at adb.org/news

 

14. ADBANNUAL REPORT 2012approved projects in the rail, urban transport (including
nonmotorized and public transport), and inland waterway
subsectors. The third ADB Transport Forum, held in November,
drew more than 500 participants to discuss key regional transport
challenges and share best practices and technologies on
sustainable transport.

In addition, ADB is scaling up promotion of greener, more
competitive, and more inclusive Asian cities under its recently
approved Urban Operational Plan (UOP). UrbInfo Statistics is an
initiative that aims to provide statistical information based on the
thematic 3E focus (Economy, Environment, and Equity) of the UOP.
Its Urban Financing Partnership Facility, supported by Sweden,
has committed $100 million in grants and guarantees to fund
environmental and pro-poor infrastructure in DMCs.

The Cities Development Initiative for Asia has assisted
44 Asian cities to formulate over $6 billion in environmental
infrastructure projects. Funding partners renewed their
commitments to the initiative for another 5 years with resources
of over $25 million. ADB is also working to develop an approach
to promote more competitive cities in Asia and Latin America
with the Andean Development Fund, and to develop Green Cities
investments in Southeast Asian countries including Indonesia,
Malaysia, Thailand, and Viet Nam.

A high-level delegation from ADB participated in the 2012
Rio+20 United Nations Conference on Sustainable Development.
A series of side events and seminars discussed key global
challenges and specific issues facing the Asia and Pacific region.
Led by the ADB President, eight multilateral development banks
announced their commitment to provide more than $175 billion
for sustainable transportation in developing countries over the
next 10 years. ADB and five other multilateral development banks
released a joint statement of support to Rio+20 goals. Eight new
Global Environment Facility grants will enhance the environmental
sustainability elements of ADB investments.

The first stage programming of financing from the Climate
Investment Funds (CIF) was largely completed in 2012, with roughly
$1.5 billion endorsed for ADB projects. To build DMC resilience
to climate change impacts, ADB and partners programmed
$405 million in financing under the CIF Pilot Program for Climate
Resilience in Bangladesh, Cambodia, Nepal, Papua New Guinea,
Samoa, Tajikistan, Tonga, and the Pacific. ADB continued to
contribute to the Green Climate Fund initiative and participated
actively in the annual global climate talks (UNFCCC COP18)
in Doha, Qatar, where it joined six other multilateral development
banks in releasing a harmonized approach to tracking climate
change financing.

ADB joined the global Low Emissions Development Strategies
network, keynoting its first regional meeting. It continued to build
and disseminate knowledge on adaptation and developed climate
risk management tools and resources. Ongoing support was also
provided to the Asia Pacific Adaptation Network, which has served
as a primary vehicle for sharing adaptation knowledge in the region.

 

Assistance is being provided to DMCs to integrate
environment and climate change considerations at all levels of
development and to strengthen country safeguard systems. The
Asia-Pacific Ecological Footprint report, prepared jointly with the
World Wide Fund for Nature, was launched, highlighting the need
to reverse the loss of biodiversity in the region by managing natural
resources sustainably.

Leveraging ADB Resources to Meet the Demands
of the Region
ADB’s resources are insufficient to meet the region’s huge
development needs. One study estimated that the region requires
about $8 trillion dollars over the next decade to meet basic
infrastructure needs. These requirements are significantly above
current levels of investment and well above the ability of the
public sector alone to provide. To maximize its impact, ADB
has effectively augmented its resources to generate more
investments for the region through cofinancing and private
sector operations.

In 2012, ADB’s own funding of $13.30 billion leveraged
$8.27 billion of direct value-added cofinancing. This comprised
74% commercial cofinancing and 26% official cofinancing.

Official Cofinancing: Commitments were received for grants and
concessional loans totaling $2.17 billion from bilateral, multilateral,
and other development agencies to cofinance 49 investment
projects and 129 technical assistance projects. ADB also received
commitments of $534.20 million through trust fund replenishments
and allocations from global funding initiatives in support of the
agriculture and natural resources, education, energy, water, and
other priority sectors. The Abu Dhabi Fund for Development and

the OPEC Fund for International Development earmarked more
than $600 million through framework arrangements to cofinance

projects in the agriculture, education, energy, finance and trade,
health, transport, urban development and water sectors, and regional
initiatives. Partnering with other development organizations helped
ADB to achieve better results for DMCs.

Commercial Cofinancing, Public-Private Partnership, and
Private Sector Operations: The involvement of the private sector
is a key factor in advancing development goals. ADB aims to
complement its private sector operations with increasing support
to PPP. In 2012, it finalized the PPP Operational Plan to provide

a consistent analytical and operational framework for PPPs.

ADB will continue to provide support for capital markets and
project financing, including commercial cofinancing, to leverage
assistance for PPPs, and nonsovereign operations. Direct valueadded commercial cofinancing in 2012 amounted to $6.1 billion
leveraging ADB resources of $3.8 billion. With ADB support, several
governments have embraced PPPs as a vital part of their economic
and social development strategies. (See Chapter 3, Developing the
Private Sector, on page 36.)

RESPONDING TO THE NEEDS OF ASIAAND THE PACIFIC = 15The Central and West Asia region continued its steady recovery
from the global financial crisis. While growth softened, the economic
environment in 2012 remained generally favorable, with developing
member countries (DMCs) having only moderate direct exposure to
the struggling economies of Europe.

The high average global price for crude oil benefited many oil
and gas exporters in the region, notably Azerbaijan, Kazakhstan, and
Turkmenistan. Uzbekistan benefited from new gas export routes to
the People’s Republic of China, as well as from existing routes to the
Russian Federation. At the same time, strong nonfuel commodity
prices and robust remittance inflows have assisted DMCs—largely oil
and gas importers, including Armenia, Georgia, the Kyrgyz Republic.
Pakistan, and Tajikistan.

Promoting sustainable economic development in the
non-primary sectors and diversifying oil- and gas-based economies
remained key development challenges for the region and for ADB,
which has identified improving the business environment and
supporting the growth of private business, especially small and
medium-sized enterprises (SMEs) in Armenia, Azerbaijan,
Kazakhstan, the Kyrgyz Republic, Tajikistan, and Uzbekistan, as
among areas of priority.

The high level of nonperforming loans in some countries
posed major financial and macroeconomic risk to lenders and
constrained economic growth as banks incurred losses and remained
risk averse.

While the region has made progress in raising living
standards and reducing poverty, growing income disparities
remain a critical development challenge. A joint ADB-United
Nations Development Programme poverty assessment concluded
in June 2012 noted that income and regional disparity gaps are
widening in Kazakhstan, the region’s wealthiest economy, pointing
to the need to advance the pace of inclusive growth. To help ensure
the benefits of growth are widely shared, many ADB programs focus
on infrastructure investment, regional cooperation, and private
sector development.

 

 

 

 

CENTRAL AND WEST ASIA

Afghanistan, Armenia, Azerbaijan, Georgia, Kazakhstan, the Kyrgyz Republic,

Pakistan, Tajikistan, Turkmenistan, Uzbekistan

Through its project design and monitoring frameworks, as well
as impact evaluation, ADB continues to ensure that its interventions
directly contribute to inclusive growth.

Operational Highlights

The operational emphasis on regional cooperation and integration,
environmental sustainability, addressing climate change risks, and
gender continued in 2012.

In Central and West Asia, ADB manages 116 projects in a
sovereign portfolio comprising 45 ordinary capital resources and
59 Asian Development Fund (ADF) loans, 36 ADF grants, 17 other
grants, and 72 technical assistance projects. Total new lending
to the public sector reached $2.7 billion. This was supported by
$37.5 million in technical assistance. The main sectors of support
were transport (63%), energy (25%), urban services (5%), and
agriculture (4%); and the largest countries of operations were
Kazakhstan followed by Afghanistan. Contract awards and
disbursement levels reached $2.6 billion and $1.7 billion, respectively.
Private sector finance totaled $416 million.

* The Kazakhstan country partnership strategy (CPS) 2012-2016
was approved, supporting diversification and industrial development
through modernizing infrastructure and utilities, and improving
access to finance for SMEs, trade, and investment in infrastructure
through public-private partnerships. In addition, ADB approved the
CPS 2012-2016 for Uzbekistan, focusing on promoting inclusive
growth through economic diversification and regional cooperation.

* The $36 million Water Supply and Sanitation Sector Project
benefited 21 towns and 101 villages in Armenia. ADB approved

$40 million in 2012 to further finance the improvement of services
in 29 towns and 160 villages.

* In Georgia, roads were rehabilitated and water supply and drainage
systems were improved in 44 municipalities. The $40 million
Municipal Services Development Project provided better access to
improved roads for more than 1.3 million people.

Since its independence from the former Soviet Union in 1992, the frequency of flood
damage in Tajikistan has increased, culminating in 2005 with severe physical damage to

the flood embankments of the Pyanj River in Khatlon Province. In April, internationally

renowned climate scientists visited the Pyanj basin as part of a pilot program that puts
climate change issues at the heart of development planning. Watch the video at adb.org

 

16 ADB ANNUAL REPORT 2012Road Works Ahead
In the past, in Afghanistan’s north, dozens of pregnant women died on the long and jarring journey toa
clinic in Bamyan in the province of the same name. But the 100-kilometer road between Yakawlang District
and the provincial seat is already saving and improving lives and enhancing business opportunities.

The North-South Corridor road has been constructed with the support of a $78.2 million loan from

ADB’s concessional Asian Development Fund.

* About $1.7 billion in transport infrastructure investments

were provided in Afghanistan, Armenia, Azerbaijan, Kazakhstan
Tajikistan, and Uzbekistan, mostly under multitranche financing
facilities (MFFs). Four loans for Central Asia Regional Economic
Cooperation (CAREC) Program road corridors in Kazakhstan and
Uzbekistan were approved.

* The $222 million first tranche of ADB’s Transport Network
Development Investment Program rehabilitated 254 kilometers of
vital roads in Afghanistan. An 88.6-kilometer strategic road from
Yakawlang to Bamyan was completed, resulting in a tenfold increase
in trade in Bamyan Province.

+ ADB-assisted projects have added 510 kilometers of transmission
lines to provide power to more than 5 million people in Afghanistan.
Projects that were ongoing in 2012 will eventually add 80,000

new connections.

* The $55 million Power Sector Rehabilitation Project in the

Kyrgyz Republic was approved to rehabilitate the Toktogul hydroelectric power plant and establish an electricity settlement center
to boost reliability and help meet demand increases.

* An $800 million MFF for the Power Transmission Enhancement
Investment Program is alleviating chronic power outages

resulting from load-shedding in Pakistan, benefiting thousands

of businesses and homes. The first tranche ($226 million),
completed in 2012, helped construct transmission lines, install
transformer extensions, increase grid stations’ transformer capacity,
and build substations.

* In Tajikistan, ADB completed an $11 million cotton development
project to improve access to seeds, finance, and markets, and

a $3 million community flood management project to increase
disaster preparedness in Khatlon and Sogd.

 

Meeting the Growing Demand for Knowledge

Strategic road maps on energy, transport, and urban development
for Kazakhstan and Uzbekistan were prepared to anticipate their
infrastructure requirements until 2040, and improve governments’
planning and investment decision-making processes. ADB and

the Government of Kazakhstan also initiated the joint Knowledge
and Experience Exchange Program to provide country knowledge
solutions and exchange of best practices with developed countries
on issues including energy efficiency.

Two CPSs were approved during the year and another
five were under preparation. The sector and thematic assessments
prepared for the CPSs facilitated policy dialogue and identified
priority areas for reform and investment, and are expected
to support governments in achieving their development
objectives.

ADB continued to promote knowledge sharing and knowledge
products at the regional level for the countries of the CAREC
Program. Completed initiatives, such as the CAREC Regional
Power Sector Master Plan and three knowledge-sharing workshops
on accession to the World Trade Organization, help coordinate
development activities across the region, access existing knowledge,
and support decision making.

Prioritizing Sustainability and Climate Resilience

ADB prioritizes the building of sustainability into infrastructure,
and replacing and upgrading existing infrastructure with more
eco-efficient systems. The Urban Services Improvement
Investment Program in Georgia will improve and expand water
supply and sanitation facilities in several towns, benefiting about
335,000 people.

CENTRALAND WEST ASIA = 17The $21.6 million Building Climate Resilience in the Pyanj
River Basin Project in Tajikistan will benefit over 1 million people.

It will improve access to water resources through climate-proofed
infrastructure; provide flood protection, early warning systems,
and risk transfer mechanisms; and ease access to information and
financial resources, particularly for women.

Tranche 1 of the Energy Efficiency Investment Program
cofinances the $85 million National Compact Fluorescent Lamp
(CFL) Project (ADB’s share is $40 million), which will replace about
30 million incandescent bulbs in homes in Pakistan with CFLs.

The project will reduce peak demand by 1,094 megawatts; avoid
1,602 megawatts in generating-capacity additions, corresponding
to $1.84 billion in new generation investments; save $800 million
in household electricity expenses; result in 2,132 gigawatt-hours of
annual electricity consumption reductions; and avoid 7 million tons
of carbon dioxide emissions by the end of 2018.

ADB's operations support inclusive growth by building the
infrastructure linking rural and urban areas in countries, the region’s
countries with each other, and the region to the rest of the world.

18 =ADBANNUAL REPORT 2012

‘CAREC

 

In education, to help provide skilled workers, ADB approved
$20 million in loan and grant support to the Second Vocational
Education and Skills Development Project in the Kyrgyz Republic. A
study on information and communication technology (ICT) policies
and strategies in basic education was conducted on Azerbaijan,
Kazakhstan, the Kyrgyz Republic, Tajikistan, and Uzbekistan,
with shorter assessments for Afghanistan, Armenia, Georgia, and
Pakistan. The work covered ICT for education issues and best
practices, as well as innovative approaches, practical solutions, cost
implications, and sustainability of |CT for education.

In Afghanistan, ADB completed two Japan Fund for Poverty
Reduction projects to raise incomes for vegetable farmers, oilseed
producers, and carpet weavers, and increase agricultural productivity
through community-based irrigation infrastructure.

Arural business support program has increased potato
production by 21%, expanded the area planted to potatoes by
481 hectares, and increased incomes by $3.21 million. The program
also built two edible oil-processing facilities and supplied carpet
weavers, all women, with 327 spinning wheels to help them become
independent suppliers. It trained about 8,600 people in production
and marketing best practices and established 38 cooperatives.Lighting Up Pakistan’s Remote Fishing Villages

 

In the coastal village of Hayat Jat in Pakistan’s Sindh Province, solar power has provided electric light
and many other basic amenities to the fisherfolk who live there. ADB provided a loan of $41 million from
its concessional Asian Development Fund for a coastal community development project that has given

residents access to solar power, fresh water, toilets, water tanks, cyclone-resistant school buildings, flood

protection embankments, and new roads and bridges. Among the beneficiaries is Mohammad Yousuf,
seen here with a solar-powered light in his Hayat Jat home.

Also in Afghanistan, a community-based irrigation project
rehabilitated 74 small-scale traditional irrigation systems, benefiting
38,600 people and 185,000 households.

ADB's Sustainable Livelihoods in Barani (rain-fed) Areas
provided sustainable livelihood through community-based smallscale initiatives implemented by more than 8,000 community
organizations in Punjab, Pakistan. The project provided marketoriented training and supported enterprise development for about
4,000 men and women.

Four power MFFs totaling about $3 billion are easing power
outages that currently hold growth in Pakistan to about 3%-4% a
year, which is insufficient to provide jobs for the rapidly growing labor
force. Improvements in generation, transmission, and distribution
throughout the country support private sector development and
better growth prospects.

The $45 million Rural Development Project in federally
administered tribal areas of Pakistan, provided clean drinking
water to more than 27,900 households; constructed rural roads;
improved integrated resource management by increasing forage
availability on rangelands by 35%; and improved animal health

services, farming systems, and crop production for more than
40,000 households.

Under the ongoing Housing for Integrated Rural Development
Program in Uzbekistan, 8,500 rural families gained new houses
in 2012. The program has so far benefited 50,000 people, and
850 small contractors have created 50,000 jobs.

 

Supporting Gender Balance in Investment Projects

Through its Promoting Gender-Inclusive Growth in Central and
West Asia Program, ADB supports mainstreaming of gender

into investment projects. The Second Small and Microfinance
Development Project benefited 9,800 entrepreneurs in Uzbekistan
and created 14,000 jobs, with women accounting for 37% of those
who benefited.

ADB's $40 million Women’s Entrepreneurship Support Sector
Development Program for Armenia will extend medium-term local
currency loans to women entrepreneurs and micro, small, and
medium-sized enterprises (MSMEs). Medium-term local currency
loans will be extended by financial institutions to the MSMEs, with
at least 50% of the loans going to businesses run by women.

 

Drawing from national assessments, Gender Statistics in the Southern Caucasus and Central

and West Asia reports on current capacity in the field of gender statistics. These statistics

reveal the similarities and diff

CANA laa ase mela aMe la Mra Cag WmClA CCM LAn(Aag OA Ud CNC CU 10) tot

information that is vital to the development of policies and programs promoting gender equality
and women’s empowerment. Download at adb.org/publications

 

CENTRALAND WEST ASIA = 19ADB operations in the People’s Republic of China (PRC) and
Mongolia have responded to a changing global economic
environment in 2012. East Asia was the fastest-growing region,
though growth has decelerated markedly due to weakening external
demand from major industrialized economies.

After initiating reforms over 3 decades ago that significantly
reduced poverty and improved living standards, the PRC has
expanded its economy by more than 9% annually since 1978,
quickly transforming itself from low-income to middle-income
status. Despite this progress, many development challenges remain,
one of which is the need to reorient the country’s growth pattern
toward domestic consumption and services. The government
must address social, environmental, and economic imbalances;
enhance innovation-led growth to facilitate the continuing middleincome transition; and implement further reforms to improve the
enabling environment for private business activity. In this context,
accelerating development of the lesser-developed central, western,
and northeastern regions is critically important.

Mongolia has a rapidly growing economy. Although about
a third of Mongolians remain poor, the country has rebounded
strongly from the financial crisis, and with new large mines about to
begin production, substantial increases in living standards for all are
possible. However, mining-led growth has been accompanied by
further development challenges including a highly procyclical fiscal
policy, increasing environmental degradation, rapid rural-urban
migration, widening inequality, and youth unemployment.

Operational Highlights

ADB plays a catalytic role in the PRC’s development through an
operational focus on innovation and value addition, and programs
that support the generation of knowledge, sharing of best practices,
building capacity, and fostering regional cooperation. Such projects
are exemplified by, among many others, pollution-management
initiatives and irrigation infrastructure and water-saving irrigation
measures in the central and western areas of the country.

The High-Level Forum o!

EAST ASIA

The People’s Republic of China, Mongolia

The new country partnership strategy 2011-2015 embraces
three pillars: inclusive growth, environmentally sustainable growth,
and regional cooperation and integration. In 2012, ADB approved
$1.47 billion in loans for 11 projects in the PRC among the four
priority sectors: natural resources and agriculture (four projects,
$620 million), energy (two projects, $250 million), transport
(two projects, $250 million), and urban and social sectors
(three projects, $350 million). The focus of these innovative
projects include sustainable urban transport; efficient district
heating; and water and natural resources protection with
eco-compensation, a system that provides incentives for local
people to protect natural resources.

In the first year of the new country partnership strategy for
Mongolia, ADB prioritized new interventions supporting sustainable
development and inclusive growth, including loans for modern
public transport in Ulaanbaatar, for expanding the quality of and
access to health services, and small-business grant support for
herders. In 2012, ADB approved $119.6 million in loans and grants
for four projects in Mongolia.

As a result of anew $30 million Asian Development Fund
(ADF) loan, a general hospital in one of the poorest districts of
Ulaanbaatar will be opened, benefiting 260,000 residents.

Sharing Knowledge to Drive Change
Knowledge management and innovation underpin ADB’s
partnership with the PRC and Mongolia, and knowledge solutions
are an important driver of change in ADB’s country strategies,
operations, and projects in both countries. These solutions range
from knowledge embodied in loan and technical assistance projects
to reports and data acquired from staff research.

They are exemplified by publications in 2012 such as
Drying Up: What to do about Droughts in the PRC, a report
featuring findings and recommendations from ADB's recent
three technical assistance projects on water resources and risks
management. They also include reports and policy papers prepared

South Knowledge Cooperation, a knowledge-sharing event

organized jointly by ADB and the People’s Republic of China, was held at ADB headquarters

in Manila in September. The meeting, the fourth forum of its type since 2009, brought together

80 participants from 15 developing member countries, who exchanged ideas for stronger cooperation

between developing countries in Asia. Read more at adb.org

 

20 ADBANNUAL REPORT 2012Generating Jobs, Developing Value Chains

 

An ADB project to help small agribusinesses in Mongolia to produce premium-value products has

provided $14.72 million in grant and $2 million in technical assistance. As a result of this support,

agro-processing enterprises and herder cooperatives in six western provinces have been able to develop

their infrastructure and value chains, allowing them to produce high-value products for selected niche

markets in an environmentally friendly way. The project has generated about 800 jobs.

by staff such as ADB’s Resident Mission in the PRC’s Observations
and Suggestions series—policy briefs giving senior policy makers

in the government information and advice relevant to priority
development issues.

Subjects for knowledge products and services are jointly
identified by ADB and the governments of the PRC and Mongolia.
These often complement technical assistance projects for provision
of policy advice and training. For example, ADB’s Case Study on
South-South Cooperation: PRC-ADB Knowledge Sharing Platform,

a report completed in 2012, complements the technical assistance
on development partnerships and regional knowledge hubs.

Knowledge sharing is actively pursued to promote best
practices, showcasing innovative projects, developing capacity,
and encouraging institutional reform. In addition to 44 knowledgesharing events, 41 knowledge products and services were prepared
in 2012 in response to country demand. Priority themes for the PRC
in this respect are macroeconomic management, energy efficiency
and environmental protection, poverty reduction, and interprovincial
cooperation, while for Mongolia, the main themes are sustainable
economic growth and poverty reduction.

The Regional Knowledge Sharing Initiative was established
jointly by the PRC’s Ministry of Finance and ADB to support
knowledge exchange. The Urban Knowledge Hub, established in
cooperation with the Tongji University in Shanghai, was renewed to
continue the knowledge partnership for another 5 years. The HighLevel Forum on South-South Knowledge Cooperation convened by
ADB in September brought together policy makers from developing
member countries, international experts, the private sector, and
academics to discuss the exchange of knowledge solutions for
stronger South-South cooperation and effective development

 

partnerships. Support by ADB for a Policy Advisory Team to
conduct policy research and prepare policy briefs for the Mongolia
National Development and Innovation Committee (now Ministry of
Economic Development) continued.

Improving Livelihoods through Sustainable Development
ADB supports inclusive growth in the PRC by promoting environmentally sustainable and regionally balanced development that
improves rural livelihoods and helps create jobs for migrant workers.
Rural infrastructure, land improvement, and water resources
protection projects totaling $620 million helped generate income
and expand livelihood improvement opportunities in less-developed
areas in 2012.

New transport projects for Hunan and Jiangxi, with a total
value of $250 million, were approved in 2012. They will support
inclusive growth by improving connectivity and movement of
people for better access to job opportunities and public services.
In urban development, also through new projects approved
in 2012, ADB is supporting city infrastructure development
in less-developed interior regions such as Gansu, Hubei, and
Liaoning provinces.

Mongolia has great economic potential. There is a risk,
however, that the current focus on development of the mining
sector will result in other parts of the economy being neglected,
causing greater disparities in income and access to basic services.
For 2 decades, ADB’s portfolio in Mongolia has focused on
education, health, and social welfare to increase access to social
services, especially for poorer people. It is crucial that inclusive
growth is reflected in economic and social policies, including those
that assist job creation. ADB, with funding from the Japan Fund for

EASTASIA 21Poverty Reduction (JFPR), will assist the Government of Mongolia
over the next 3 years to formulate policies and investment strategies
for inclusive growth.

Urbanization, pollution, and environmental damage remain the
biggest challenges for governments and planners in East Asia,
affecting the quality of life of millions. To help address this challenge,
ADB strengthened its support for green growth in 2012.

ADB completed its Country Environmental Analysis
for the People’s Republic of China during the year. Based on
this research and extensive consultations, it proposed a wide
range of programs and policies that will help improve the quality

22 ADBANNUAL REPORT 2012

of the country’s environment. ADB continues to support the
PRC’s low-carbon development by focusing on environmental
sustainability across priority sectors.

In the urban sector, ADB extended its support to sustainable
pollution control, sludge and solid waste management, and township
development in 2012 in the provinces of Gansu, Hubei, and Liaoning.
District heating projects in Heilongjiang and Shanxi replaced standalone building boilers with a link to centralized heating systems,
reducing air pollution and supporting green city development. In
the transport sector, ADB supported sustainable urban transport in
Jiangxi and green and inland waterway transport in Hunan.

In addition, ADB piloted an integrated approach for pollution
control and surface water management, improving downstreamManaging Forests, Protecting the Future

 

A shortage of alternative job opportunities in the Onon River region in eastern Mongolia forced many people
who lived along the river to overharvest timber, leading to deforestation. An ADB poverty reduction project
has assisted these communities to develop an integrated river basin management plan and manage a forest
area of more than 400,000 hectares. The project has helped 1,644 households organize themselves into
125 community-based groups for sustainable forest management. It has also provided grants to local people
to develop small businesses.

water quality by rehabilitating lakes and hydraulic circulation, and Backing Women in Business
improving wetland protection, restoration, and management in In 2012, 93% of approved ADB loan and grant projects in East Asia
Anhui, Gansu, Hubei, Liaoning, and Ningxia. ADB also continuedits were categorized as having effective gender mainstreaming. ADB
high-level policy dialogue on green growth with the governments is implementing two Gender and Development Cooperation Fund
of Mongolia and the PRC and actively participated in regional grants in the PRC, which focus on building women’s entrepreneurial
environment initiatives. skills and pathways to creating small businesses.

In Ulaanbaatar, home to almost half of Mongolia’s In Turpan, Xinjiang, a development project linked to ADB
population, increasing congestion and air pollution are eroding urban infrastructure investments has helped build capacity and
the quality of life, with high social and economic costs. In response, establish businesses for ethnic minority women in the tourism sector.
ADB is helping develop a modern public transit system and In Shanxi, a women’s economic empowerment project
lay the foundation for sustainable urban growth. A $216 million established committees in four villages, providing training to women
urban transport development investment program will finance on fund management, community organization, and leadership.
a network-wide bus rapid transit system and provide capacity In addition, ADB is implementing two JFPR projects and one ADF
development technical assistance aimed at international levels of grant in Mongolia, which aim to boost women’s engagement in
efficiency, safety, and vehicle emissions control. The program was community-based development and improve their situation in
approved in 2012. participating private enterprises.

ADB proposes a range of programs and policies that will help improve environmental quality in the

People’s Republic of China. Toward an Environmentally Sustainable Future: Country Environmental
Analysis of the People’s Republic of China discusses emerging sources of pollution, challenges for
natural resources management, market-based instruments that can help control pollution, and green
economic policies that can lead to environmental sustainability. Download at adb.org/publications

 

EASTASIA 23PACIFIC

 

 

ta - Tr ar The Cook Islands, Fiji, Kiribati, the Marshall Islands, the Federated States
= c
z . ao a of Micronesia, Nauru, Palau, Papua New Guinea, Samoa, Solomon Islands,
a, a ~ vi rT _ ,
oe iw Timor-Leste, Tonga, Tuvalu, Vanuatu
. at

For many of ADB’s developing member countries (DMCs) in the
Pacific, growth continues to be constrained by isolation. While
the region’s few large resource-rich DMCs have achieved growth
rates of 7% to 10%, most of the smaller Pacific DMCs have
average annual growth of between 1% and 2%, driven by public
expenditures.

Weakening global conditions had only a modest impact on
most Pacific economies in 2012, and the strong relative growth of the
Australian economy has, to some degree, buffered the region. Prices
of the Pacific’s major commodity exports (including coconut oil and
timber) fell in 2012, but the tourism sector has been stable and, in
some countries, expanding.

Private sector development is essential for sustained
and higher growth in the Pacific, but a shortage of investors,
weak capacity, and limited resources represent a challenge. As
acknowledged by the Pacific Islands Forum leaders meeting in
August 2012, whose theme was Large Ocean Island States—the
Pacific Challenge, technology has the potential to change the
region’s economic landscape. ADB is increasing its assistance in
this area, with particular focus on information and communication
technology (ICT) and renewable energy.

While the region has great development potential, 10 of
ADB's 11 fragile and conflict-affected states are in the Pacific, with
all Pacific DMCs having some characteristics of fragility. Following
the Fourth High Level Forum on Aid Effectiveness held in Busan,
Republic of Korea, in November-December 2011, global and regional
discussion on Pacific DMCs’ fragility has deepened. In 2012, fragility
assessments were conducted in urban settlements in Fiji, Kiribati,
and Papua New Guinea (PNG). The findings will inform future
Pacific operations.

Operational Highlights
In 2012, ADB assistance, both loans and grants, to the Pacific
region totaled $208.2 million for 15 projects (including Asia Pacific

Disaster Response Fund) and 34 projects received $22.9 million in
technical assistance. The main sectors of support were transport
(66% of lending and grant assistance), multisector (26%), and public
sector management (3%). Timor-Leste was the largest country of
operations with $108.7 million for one project, followed by PNG with
$41.5 million, also for one project.

* Approval of the development of the second submarine fiberoptic cable projects (a Solomon Islands broadband development
project, following a submarine cable project for Tonga-Fiji approved
in 2011) will help increase the reliability and reduce the cost of
telecommunications, particularly in Solomon Islands. By supporting
this development, ADB is a vital partner in efforts to strengthen links
between countries.

* Work on development of the Lae Port in PNG is continuing,

and enhancements to Avatiu Port in the Cook Islands have been
completed. Implementation of a road rehabilitation project in Kiribati
connecting Betio and the airport commenced, and road upgrades
were accelerated in Fiji, PNG, and Solomon Islands.

* ADB's operations in Timor-Leste expanded rapidly after the
country gained access to ordinary capital resources in 2011.

For example, in 2012, ADB approved loans of $40 million for a road
network upgrading project, which will upgrade 59 kilometers of
principal national roads.

* Approval of four project preparatory technical assistance

grants in the area of renewable energy and energy efficiency for
Samoa, Solomon Islands, Tonga, and Vanuatu, responding to
Pacific DMCs’ concern about climate change and other
environmental issues, while aiming to help them reduce their
dependency on imported diesel.

* ADB and the University of the South Pacific’s (USP) signing of
the first loan agreement under a $19 million multitranche financing

 

 

facility to help the university upgrade its regional campuses (in the
first instance, $2.6 million for the Kiribati campus) and ensure

While Papua New Guinea’s state-owned enterprises (SOEs) have produced profits in the upper range
of Pacific SOE portfolios, they have done so at substantial cost to the government. Finding Balance,
released in September, benchmarks the performance of these enterprises with those of Fiji, the

Marshall Islands, Samoa, Solomon Islands, and Tonga; assesses key drivers of this performance;

to guide policy action. Download at adb.org/publications

and identifies successful reform strategies

 

24 ADBANNUAL REPORT 2012AFP.

 

Adapting to Climate Change and Generating Jobs

A $33.98 million ADB-funded project on Makira Island, east of Guadalcanal in Solomon Islands, is allowing
some women to participate in the local economy for the first time. The project will connect villages to the
island’s hospital and market with 100 kilometers of new all-weather roads and bridges. It will replace or
upgrade 30 water crossings (bridges, culverts, and wet crossings), so they can withstand future extreme
weather events, and provide sealed roads. The project also offers long-term opportunities for rural

communities to earn cash incomes through labor-based road maintenance.

 

students have access to distance learning and e-learning. This is
the first Asian Development Fund loan to a regional institution, and
USP’s first development loan.

* The approval of four policy-based operations in the Cook Islands,
the Marshall Islands, Nauru, and Tuvalu, many of which are based on
acommon policy matrix led by government and supported by other
development partners, representing the key approaches advocated
for dealing with fragile countries with limited institutional capacity.
* Collaborations with development partners were strengthened

as reflected in cofinancing of $98.2 million for 22 projects and
technical assistance.

 

Overcoming Infrastructure Gaps
ADB's work in the Pacific supports inclusive growth by overcoming
infrastructure gaps and improving access to services, developing
skills, and strengthening social welfare systems. These help to engage
women and young people, those in rural areas and outer islands, and
vulnerable groups, in the growth and development process.
Improved access to economic infrastructure services (such as
electricity, roads, and ICT) was supported by the implementation of
infrastructure projects and technical assistance across the Pacific.
The upgrading of the Highlands Highway in PNG and support for
domestic shipping schemes in PNG and Vanuatu improved people’s
access to markets and education and health services. Support for
road maintenance projects in Solomon Islands created jobs for
people in rural areas. ADB is a founding partner of the Pacific Region
Infrastructure Facility, which seeks to improve the provision and
sustainability of infrastructure in cooperation with other major
development partners.

Four ADB policy-based lending initiatives and grants approved
in 2012 included a focus on social infrastructure. These contributions aim to boost social protection in the Cook Islands—through
a review of the social welfare system and a pilot to outsource the
provision of social services to community-based organizations—and
promote gender equitable access to health and education in Nauru.

ADB continues to develop its understanding of inclusive
growth through analytical work. This makes use of various data,
including data from recent demographic and household surveys
undertaken with ADB support. In November, ADB released a paper
in the Economics Working Paper series, examining the inclusiveness of
growth in Timor-Leste.

Promoting Environmental and Social Sustainability

ADB works with Pacific DMCs to ensure the environmental and
social sustainability of investments to support growth. Safeguarding
against climate change challenges is of utmost concern to

Pacific DMCs. In response, ADB has supported governments in
implementing renewable energy programs and projects, providing
technical assistance to strengthen the implementation and use

of country safeguard systems, mainstreaming climate change
adaptation measures into project design (climate proofing and
climate resilience), and impact mitigation measures.

In 2012, for example, ADB assisted Fiji, PNG, Solomon Islands,
Timor-Leste, and Vanuatu through the Coral Triangle Initiative in the
Pacific Region to develop and implement national and communitybased coastal resources management plans, provide training on
ecosystem-based fisheries management for food security, and build
resilience to human-induced threats and climate change impacts.

PACIFIC 25ADB has targeted support to increase the development of
renewable energy. In addition to being environmentally friendly, this
will help reduce fuel imports, a significant drain on foreign reserves
for many Pacific DMCs. In PNG, an investment program for the
electrification of towns is supporting generation of hydropower and
biomass power (through methane recovery) and improving power
distribution in provincial centers.

In addition, ADB has continued to support Pacific DMCs
in improving the energy efficiency of power generation and
consumption, at both the supply and demand side.

At the 45th ADB Annual Meeting in Manila in May, Pacific
DMC Governors decided to establish a Ministerial Working Group
on Climate Financing to help Pacific DMCs obtain climate change
funds. ADB is providing technical support to this working group.

26 ADBANNUAL REPORT 2012

ADB uses lessons learned from its experiences and research in the
Pacific and elsewhere to design and implement better projects in
support of better development results in the region.

A good example of this process at work is the knowledge
products produced under the Pacific Private Sector Development
Initiative (PSDI) in 2012, including Economic Benefit of Companies,
Legal Business Environment, and Gender Empowerment through Legal
Reforms for Private Sector Development. These brochures advocate
reform for governments to consider, as well as providing a framework
to guide reforms. Economics of Climate Proofing at the Project Level:
Framework and Case Studies in the Pacific shares information on
climate proofing, and the likely benefits, as well as practical examples
of the results of climate proofing infrastructure investments.INGETJE TADROS

 

Network Rollout Puts a Nation in Touch

Papua New Guinea is joining other Pacific island countries in liberalizing their telecommunications
industries and developing the private sector. An ADB mobile telecommunications expansion project,
launched in 20039, is at the forefront of those efforts, and helping private telecom company Digicel
to expand network coverage. Digicel says mobile penetration has quadrupled since it arrived in
Papua New Guinea, with 4.5 million people now having access to mobile services.

 

ADB has engaged governments and stakeholders in dialogue Meeting in the Cook Islands in August. It also promoted partnerships

 

 

and exploration of emerging issues through a variety of forums in sharing knowledge and analyses, such as collaboration with
and mediums in 2012. These included newsletters such as the the Asian Development Bank Institute, the Australian Agency for
Dili Bulletin and PSD] Bulletin, policy briefs on good budget International Development (AusAID), and the World Bank under
practices and state-owned enterprise (SOE) reforms, contributions _ the Pacific Futures 2030 umbrella; dialogue on Pacific development
to the Australian National University’s development policy blog, issues with the Australian National University’s Crawford School of
and videos on SOE reforms in Tonga and business reforms Public Policy and AusAID; a joint brief with the World Bank Group
in Samoa. on the country performance assessment process and findings in
ADB promoted SOE reforms at the Pacific Islands Forum PNG; and via external contributors, including the International
Economic Ministers Meeting in July and joined dialogue with the Monetary Fund and academics, to the Pacific Economic Monitor,

private sector on the same topic at the Pacific Islands Forum Leaders _ produced by ADB three times a year.

ADB is committed to supporting urban development in the Pacific. The State of Pacific Towns

and Cities: Urbanization in ADB’s Pacific Developing Member Countries, released in October,
examines the process of urbanization in the Pacific and points to ways in which ADB, developing

member countries governments, and other urban stakeholders can improve urban governance,
management, and development in the region. Download at adb.org/publications

 

PACIFIC 27Economic growth in South Asia moderated in 2012, falling from 6.5%
in 2011 to 5.5%. Continued weakening of the global economic environment has been a major cause of slower growth for South Asian
economies, with falling exports and investment inflows impacting
manufacturing and services. Subdued consumption and domestic
investment have also contributed to the ongoing slowdown.

Inflation has been a major concern. While the rate of inflation
has slowed, it remains stubbornly high. A key driver of price increases
has been food price inflation driven by structural factors. High
inflation has kept central banks from aggressively easing monetary
policies to counter slowing growth. Another key challenge for
governments is to narrow the widening trade deficit, largely driven
by high fuel imports and soft external demand.

The increase in the trade deficit has exerted a downward
pressure on local currencies, adding to inflationary pressure.
However, strong remittance inflows to Bangladesh, India, Nepal, and
Sri Lanka, as well as recovering tourism receipts in Bhutan, Nepal,
and Sri Lanka, helped improve current account balances in these
economies. Poor infrastructure, lack of urban services, and low skills
levels, among others, remain major issues, particularly in Bangladesh,
India, and Nepal, and have constrained economic activity by
adversely affecting business conditions and restricting investment.

A key focus of ADB’s work in South Asia in 2012 was to adopt
innovative approaches to mainstream priorities—especially
environmental sustainability, gender equity, private sector
development, and regional cooperation and integration. In this
regard, ADB delivered a program, aligned with its Strategy 2020,
focusing on sustainable transport, clean energy generation and
access, energy efficiency, infrastructure financing, public sector
management, urban infrastructure and services, climate resilience,
skills development, and others.

Anumber of programs in 2012 were aimed at making the
private sector more competitive, boosting intra-regional trade.

ADB also emphasized human resource development, particularly in

 

SOUTH ASIA

Bangladesh, Bhutan, India, the Maldives, Nepal, Sri Lanka

technical and vocational education, by supporting enterprise-based
training in Bangladesh and Sri Lanka, to give unemployed people
a better chance of finding jobs.

Through its support for public resource management
programs, ADB helped create fiscal space for governments to deliver
better social services. Furthermore, through credit guarantees and
other facilities, it introduced innovative products to bridge the huge
infrastructure financing gap in the region, particularly in India.

Efforts were made to improve irrigation practices across the region,
to ensure better management of water resources.

Operational Highlights
ADB lending assistance to South Asia in 2012 totaled $3.57 billion
for 30 projects and $51.59 million in technical assistance for 68 projects. The main sectors of support were transport (37% of lending
assistance), energy (22%), and public management (12%). India had
the largest level of project approvals in South Asia ($2.02 billion)
followed by Bangladesh ($1.05 billion). Nonsovereign lending
(in partial credit guarantees) to India amounted to $128 million,
which includes $64 million from private sector operations.
Development operations were focused on critical areas
including energy development and efficiency, regional trade
facilitation, urban infrastructure, and rural connectivity. In
Bangladesh, the country’s first bus rapid transit project, prepared
with private sector participation, will provide green and affordable
transport services to 1 million people. The Rural Connectivity
Investment Program will augment the rural roads network for
approximately 4,200 habitations across five states in India.
To address power shortages, ADB is supporting the building of new
power generation facilities and power transmission interconnections
in the region. Support to Sri Lanka in wastewater management will
help stem an annual loss of $132 million in foregone revenue.
Contract disbursement figures for all six developing member
countries (DMCs) in 2012 ranged from a high of 130% for India

An opportunity to address reforms in state finances—and eventually improve
service delivery—in West Bengal has led to ADB investments of $400 million in the

Indian state. The West Bengal Development Finance Program is the latest in a series

of such programs in India, where ADB’s experience in public resource management
is helping to improve fiscal management. Read more at adb.org/projects

 

28 ADBANNUAL REPORT 2012AFP.

 

$800 Million Program Will Link 4,200 Indian Villages to Services and Markets

 

A new, four-part, $800 million ADB investment program will help build 9,000 kilometers of rural roads in

five Indian states, connecting approximately 4,200 far-flung communities year-round to crucial markets

and services. The ADB investment is part of a larger $1.2 billion program to connect villages in the states
of Assam, Chhattisgarh, Madhya Pradesh, Odisha, and West Bengal with all-weather roads by the end
of 2017. The project will allow farmers to transport goods to markets, men and women to seek jobs, and

children to get to schools and hospitals.

 

to alow of 83% for Nepal. To help address low disbursements,
ADB participates in regular tripartite portfolio review meetings with
governments to ensure project implementation is on track. Efforts
to ensure project readiness and quality at entry also help. It piloted
use of the $3.5 million project design advance in Bangladesh to
support project preparatory work, which included the preparation
of detailed designs.

A total of $2 billion of lending assistance was through the
multitranche financing facility, which has been increasingly used
because it supports long-term investment plans. The facility has
been used in the transport and energy sectors in particular.

ADB leveraged a total amount of $721.67 million in
official ($646.17 million) and commercial ($75.5 million)
cofinancing resources in 2012, representing 20% of its total
South Asia operations.

Prioritizing Knowledge in Development Operations
ADB's work in South Asia DMCs focuses on a Finance++
value proposition, which prioritizes the introduction of
knowledge solutions in development operations. Activities
designed to support policy making to this end included studies
in Bangladesh on the escalation of food prices, and in India
on the public distribution system; roundtables with developers,
financiers, government officials, and industry associations, on
infrastructure in Bangladesh and India; and consultations on
strengthening capital markets in countries including Bangladesh
and Bhutan.

In India and the People’s Republic of China, South-South
knowledge sharing encouraged exchange of experiences in road

sector development. Knowledge products on technical and
vocational education and training provided insights to support
project preparation and capacity-building efforts in Bangladesh and
Sri Lanka. Experiences gained from a pilot on e-learning in Sri Lanka
(targeting improvements in teaching and learning in schools) have
been shared in Bangladesh.

The Australia~ADB South Asia Development Partnership
Facility encourages quick responses to DMCs seeking to effect
swift and targeted project interventions and encourages knowledge
sharing across development operations in the region.

A Capacity Development Resource Center was established
at ADB’s India Resident Mission in New Delhi. The center produces
training modules and materials, accesses the services of noted
national experts, and helps in sharing international best practices.

In Bhutan, ADB supported the Third Bhutan Living Standards
Survey. The survey data will be particularly useful in updating the
country’s assessment of poverty, weights for the consumer price
index, and other development outcomes.

 

Focusing on Clean and Green Initiatives

In 2012, ADB focused on green growth, climate change and disaster
risk reduction, support for the Asia Solar Power Initiative, and
sustainable transport initiatives. All country partnership strategies
will now incorporate climate change vulnerability assessments,
which highlight areas in which intervention can help manage
climate change impacts. Across the region, technical assistance and
investments were provided specifically to support renewable and
clean energy development, energy efficiency enhancement, mass
transport, and urban development.

SOUTHASIA 29Under the Asia Solar Power Initiative, ADB supported
(i) preparation of solar energy and smart grid development projects
in India, which will involve facilitating private sector investment,

(ii) development of a project on clean energy and boosting network
efficiency in Sri Lanka; and (iii) solar and/or wind power on mini-grid
development in rural communities in Nepal.

Other renewable energy projects helped reduce pollution
and greenhouse gas emissions in the region. ADB took steps to
incorporate a clean development mechanism in Indian Railways
by working with the United Nations Framework Convention on_
Climate Change to develop a new methodology to record emission
reductions resulting from the increasing use of railways for
public transport.

In addition, coastal protection and improvement in the
management of water resources through flood control and better
irrigation was a primary focus in Bangladesh. An infrastructure
project, valued at $150 million including cofinancing, will improve
livelihoods in 12 rural coastal districts that are vulnerable to climate
variability and change. About 3.5 million people (of whom more than
40% are poor) will directly benefit from the project. Cyclone shelters
will help save lives in extreme climatic events.

30 ADBANNUAL REPORT 2012

ADB's support for inclusive growth in South Asia includes promotion
of economic growth, opportunities, and trade links in India’s lagging
states (such as Assam, Bihar, Chhattisgarh, Jharkhand, Madhya
Pradesh, and Odisha); increasing access to electricity; and improving
earnings potential for disadvantaged people by expanding

training opportunities (in countries such as Bangladesh, Nepal,

and Sri Lanka).

Through Bangladesh’s second urban primary health care
development project, ADB helped strengthen the government’s
capacity to deliver basic health care services to urban poor by
building about 150 primary health care centers, 20 comprehensive
reproductive health care centers, and 70 community toilets. Over
700,000 cases of acute respiratory tract infection among children,
464,000 cases of childhood diarrhea, and 600,000 cases of
micronutrient deficiencies were also treated. In Sri Lanka, a program
to modernize secondary education provided 54,690 scholarships
to talented school students from disadvantaged families for
employment-oriented training. A public management program in
West Bengal in India is expected to free up $1.4 billion by 2015 for
greater investments in health and education.Sri Lanka’s Southern Expressway Opens Trade Opportunities
The new Southern Expressway linking Colombo (in Sri Lanka’s Western Province) to Galle has helped cut

 

the journey time for traders transporting fresh produce and seafood to the south from 3 hours to 1 hour.
Improving trade between the island’s major cities was a prime motivation for the development project that
resulted in the building of the Southern Expressway. The 29-kilometer southern section of the highway was
funded by ADB, at a cost of $180 million.

 

 

In India, projects directly addressing poverty reduction and benefiting 3,061 households. Some 19,792 beneficiaries received
inclusive growth made up 12% of loan approvals. Likewise, large microfinance loans which, in turn, created jobs for an estimated
energy and transport infrastructure projects, which impact poverty 68,216 people.
reduction, comprise 67% of the portfolio. Eighty-four percent of
ADB loans in India in 2012 went to the poorest states. Striving for Greater Gender Equality

In Nepal’s community-based water supply and sanitation In 2012, projects representing the equivalent of 52% of Asian
sector, ADB partnered with more than 170 nongovernment organi- Development Fund and ordinary capital resources in South Asia met
zations to strengthen community participation and gender main- gender equity and effective gender mainstreaming requirements.
streaming. Assistance also increased the technical, financial, and Gender mainstreaming considerations are now more visible in
management capacity of water users’ and sanitation committees in ADB's programs. It sets rigorous gender indicators and targets and
Nepal. A total of 44,768 households constructed latrines. Of these, seeks to ensure effective monitoring of gender equality results in its
more than 8,900 ultra-poor households received a partial subsidy, projects and programs. Particular attention was paid to improving
and 25,754 initiated the work themselves. To improve sanitation in the quality of data and gender analysis in the transport and energy
schools, 354 school latrines were constructed. sectors in 2012. In addition, ADB engaged in a broad range of

In Bangladesh, a rural development project helped to raisethe gender-related knowledge work, including 10 country-specific
average monthly income of indigenous communities by more than capacity development training events. The India Resident Mission
30% and improved almost 56 kilometers of feeder roads, improving organized a workshop on gender equality results in which 42 project
access to services. Fifty-two health centers were established, directors and staff members of ADB-funded projects participated.

ADB provided support for the Third Bhutan Living Standar rvey, a key source of data

for evaluating the government's five-year plan (2008-2013) for poverty assessment and

for updating the weights for the consumer price index. Survey data will also inform policy,

providing useful information for the formulation of ADB’s next country partnership strategy

2014-2018. Read more at adb.org/projects

 

SOUTHASIA 31Programs to create jobs, facilitate trade through regional cooperation, promote education and skills training, and mitigate the effects
of climate change and manage disaster risks were key priority areas
for ADB’s Southeast Asia operations in 2012. ADB also led intensive
work on reengagement with Myanmar.

The region as a whole performed strongly, expanding by
more than 5.0% in 2012 compared with 4.6% in 2011. However,
growth decelerated in Cambodia, Indonesia, and Viet Nam.

Global uncertainties have weighed on the exports of Cambodia
and Indonesia, and policy tightening to stabilize the economy
contributed to subdued growth in Viet Nam, at about 5.0%
compared with 5.9% in 2011.

The Philippine economy continues to be one of the best
performing, with gross domestic product growth accelerating to
6.6% in 2012, compared with 3.9% in 2011. This was driven by robust
consumer spending, and a rebound in government expenditure, and
exports. Thailand has rebounded from growth of 0.1% in 2011
to 6.4% in 2012, as it recovered from disruptions caused by floods.
The Lao People’s Democratic Republic (Lao PDR) economic
performance remained strong with a gross domestic product growth
of 7.9% in 2012 from 7.8% in 2011.

Major development challenges in the region included the need
to maintain the economic stability of developing member countries
(DMCs) amid continuing weakness in the developed world, to
continue improving regional cooperation and trade links along with
road and rail networks, and to boost skills as countries struggle with
unemployment and underemployment.

Significantly, as ADB has had no operations in Myanmar since
1988, it began a reengagement process with the country, assigning
staff to extended missions in Yangon. A new interim country
partnership strategy (CPS) for Myanmar was developed to support
the building of human and institutional capacity, to promote an
enabling economic environment and infrastructure development,
and create access to work for rural people.

 

~

4 cn a re) in

ie

32 = ADBANNUAL REPORT 2012

SOUTHEAST ASIA

Brunei Darussalam, Cambodia, Indonesia,
the Lao People’s Democratic Republic, Malaysia, Myanmar,
the Philippines, Singapore, Thailand, Viet Nam

Operational Highlights

A total of $3.7 billion in funding supported the core sectors—
infrastructure (54%), education (5%), and finance sector
development (9%). About 28% of ADB assistance supported
public sector management, 1% supported health, and 3% went

to agriculture. The Southeast Asia operations also achieved

$873 million in cofinancing and $97 million in technical assistance
approvals in 2012.

In addition to the interim CPS for Myanmar and reengagement
efforts with that country, which involved significant preparatory
analytical work and dialogue, the CPSs for Indonesia and Viet Nam
were approved. These are aimed at assisting their governments to
achieve more inclusive, environmentally sustainable growth. For
Thailand, ADB began preparation of a CPS aimed at supporting
government initiatives to achieve high-income country status.

In infrastructure support, ADB funded an urban transport
project that will establish an integrated sustainable transport system
in six districts and a water sector investment program that will help
increase water supply coverage to 90% by 2020 in urban areas in
Viet Nam, and an energy-efficient electric vehicles project in the
Philippines. It also funded innovative interventions in Cambodia, the
Philippines, and Viet Nam to facilitate public-private partnerships
(PPPs) and strengthen its projects through start-up support.

To support education, ADB funded a vocational training
project to benefit over 45,000 students in Indonesia by 2016 and
a sector development program in Cambodia to benefit about
558,000 students in lower secondary schools by 2017. In finance
sector development, it approved a program to increase domestic
participation in the nonbank finance subsector in Indonesia, and
a microfinance development program in Viet Nam.

Among other public sector management initiatives, ADB
approved a government program to generate jobs in the tourism
sector and promote work opportunities for young people in
the Philippines. Due to uncertainties in the global economic

Myanmar in Transition: Opportunities and Challenges, the first major economic report on the country
ecent years, highlights Myanmar’s key strengths as it emerges from 5 decades of economic and political

isolation, including natural resources, renewable energy potential, young workforce, and strategic location.
The publication was part of a range of initial sector assessments and reports produced by ADB to formulate
the Myanmar Interim Country Partnership Strategy 2012-2014. Download at adb.org/publicationsAFP.

 

Rallying for Indonesia’s Reefs

ADB’s coral reef rehabilitation and management project in Indonesia aims to preserve reefs and
fish stocks by reducing destructive fishing practices. The project has carried out awareness campaigns
about the impacts of destructive fishing on ecosystems, and involved local fishermen in identifying

protection areas and action plans. Today, many fishermen—who once used bombs and cyanide

to catch fish—are at the forefront of efforts to protect and monitor the reefs. As a result, live coral

cover in project areas has increased by more than 5% in a year.

 

environment, a $500 million precautionary financing facility was
provided to Indonesia to help gain access to market financing.

Environmentally friendly development was promoted through
a project in Viet Nam, which aims to reduce pollution from

 

agricultural waste, and an integrated natural resources management
project in the Philippines, which aims to benefit 220,000
households by 2025 by improving watershed conditions in four
upper river basins.

The Greater Mekong Subregion Corridor Towns Development
Project will transform 10 corridor towns in Cambodia, the
Lao PDR, and Viet Nam into economic hubs by improving urban
 

environmental infrastructure (for solid waste disposal, improved
mobility, and flood control) and strengthening institutional
capacities of provincial and local authorities.

To contribute further to climate change mitigation and
adaptation, ADB approved a $111.5 million regional project on flood
and drought control in the Greater Mekong Subregion (GMS) that
aims to benefit at least half a million people, and a $55 million flood
damage rehabilitation project in Cambodia that aims to reconstruct
about 70 kilometers of flood-damaged roads by 2015.

Placing a Premium on Knowledge
ADB includes a knowledge strategy in each CPS in Southeast Asia.
In 2012, it drafted country knowledge plans that draw on the
CPS and related country operations business plans for Indonesia
and the Philippines, and began preparing country knowledge plans
for other DMCs.

Sector assessments, strategies, road maps, and thematic
studies remain the basis for identifying lending and nonlending

knowledge support. In 2012, initial sector assessments for Myanmar
formed the basis for a more systematic and informed dialogue
between ADB and the government at sector level.

ADB knowledge products and services continued to
enhance the research and planning capacities of DMCs in the
region. For instance, the GMS—Phnom Penh Plan for Development
Management Project played an effective role in developing the
capacities of GMS researchers and institutions in the field of policy
research. Policy briefs, Pathways to Policy, were produced, featuring
papers contributed by GMS researchers, and research results were
disseminated to policy makers, implementers, and other GMS
stakeholders so that they can better understand the subregion’s
development challenges.

An international knowledge-sharing forum on PPP in Health,
held in Manila on 23-25 October, brought together experts and
leaders in the health and social services sectors to showcase
case studies and best practices in Asia, Europe, and elsewhere. In
addition, an international forum on flood management for Thailand
was conducted in Bangkok on 19-20 January, and a similar forum
was completed for the Philippines in Manila on 4-5 December.

Environmentally Sustainable Growth Underpins Strategy
ADB's operational and assistance program is increasingly aligned
with Strategy 2020, and environmentally sustainable growth is a
key strategic agenda. It was a strategic pillar in CPSs endorsed for
Indonesia, Viet Nam, and Myanmar (interim CPS) in 2012. Similarly,
at a subregional level, the Greater Mekong Subregion Economic
Cooperation Program Strategic Framework 2012-2022 identifies
biodiversity and ecosystem conservation as priorities.

SOUTHEAST ASIA 33,In 2012, interventions to promote environmentally sustainable
growth accounted for more than 30% of ADB’s lending in Southeast
Asia. Key sectors, such as agriculture, transport, energy, and urban
development, incorporated investment strategies that favor a
shift toward improved natural resource efficiency and reduced
carbon emissions.

Agriculture and water sector operations focused on improving
land productivity and enhancing water use efficiency in Cambodia,
the Lao PDR, and Viet Nam, while transport sector work included
shifts in emphasis from surface transport to railways and mass urban
transport in Cambodia and Viet Nam.

By mobilizing more than $545 million in grants and highly
concessional credits from its Climate Investment Funds, and
more than $65 million from other development partners, ADB is
accelerating efforts to mainstream climate change mitigation and
adaptation in development planning of its DMCs. For example,
it is administering a $105 million loan and grant from the Clean
Technology Fund for Philippine environmental projects.

Through its flagship subregional Coral Triangle Initiative and
the GMS Core Environment Program and Biodiversity Conservation
Corridors Initiative (CEP-BCI), numerous opportunities were
catalyzed in 2012 to deepen policy dialogue, build capacity for

34 ADBANNUAL REPORT 2012

better environmental governance, and mainstream environmental
considerations in development planning. These programs resulted
in mobilization of more than $35 million in grant financing from
development partners.

Strong partnerships for strengthening country safeguard
systems—to safeguard people and the environment—were also
forged with development partners and nongovernment organizations. For example, CEP-BCI has forged effective partnerships with
local and international nongovernment organizations such as the
World Wildlife Fund.

ADB’s work in Southeast Asia supports inclusive growth through
policy reforms, investments in infrastructure, and skills training to
promote greater access to opportunities and protection for the poor
and disadvantaged.

In the Philippines, ADB approved a $350 million loan to help
strengthen policies and programs to promote competitiveness
and develop labor skills among out-of-school youth. Through a
$300 million program loan, it partnered with the Government of
Indonesia to reduce infrastructure gaps and strengthen transport
links between rural areas and urban growth centers.New Schools Offer Exit from Poverty Trap

 

A Viet Nam government-initiated lower secondary education project, which included $50 million in

ADB funding, has allowed thousands of teachers to receive further training to switch to a new curriculum.

The project focused on three pillars: quality of education; better facilities; and institutional development

through textbook replacement, training for project coordinators, and study tours for school principals

and education officials. In 6 years, 2,482 classrooms were built in 366 schools in 21 provinces and cities,

all with modern equipment and facilities.

To improve access to labor markets, $75 million was provided
to bring Indonesian industries and polytechnic institutions together
to update vocational training and better align graduates’ skills with
employers’ needs. This project is expected to benefit 250 teachers
and 35,000 students. A $90 million loan was also approved to help
the Government of Viet Nam strengthen teaching skills and courses
in biology, chemistry, mathematics, physics, and social sciences.

In the Philippines, a $2 million Japan Fund for Poverty Reduction
GJFPR) grant will help about 2,000 households in Mindanao to
establish sustainable agribusinesses.

In Cambodia, to expand access to education, ADB approved
a $30 million loan to support reforms to reduce dropout rates and
allow more poor children and girls from remote areas to attend
secondary school. And in the Philippines, through a $1.5 million
JFPR grant, it supported a PPP that will accommodate 6,000
children in new preschool classrooms in impoverished rural
communities by 2014.

Through a $40 million loan, ADB will support the development of market-oriented microfinance to increase access to formal
financial services for the poor, especially in rural areas in Viet Nam.

Promoting Gender Balance in Operations

In 2012, ADB promoted gender equity in CPSs, sector road maps,
and in the design and implementation of programs and projects.

The CPSs approved in 2012 for Indonesia and Viet Nam and the
interim CPS for Myanmar include country gender strategies, highlight
gender issues, and suggest actions to improve gender equity.

About 55% of ADB projects in Southeast Asia include strong
gender design features. All education, health, agriculture and
natural resources, and water supply and sanitation sector
projects incorporated important gender components in 2012.

In Cambodia, collaboration with the government is promoting
women’s access to road construction and maintenance jobs.

To support improved gender initatives in DMCs, ADB and the
Australian Agency for International Development held a Greater
Mekong Subregion Gender and Transport Workshop in Ha Noi
on 24-26 July. It showcased successful gender-inclusive projects,
promoted cross-fertilization of experiences among government
officials, and suggested gender action plans. In addition, continued
support was provided to executing and implementing agencies by
engaging resident mission gender specialists in ongoing reviews.

 

Knowledge-sharing forums serve as an important mechanism for improving disaster
management preparedness across the region. At a joint 2-day ADB-Thai Government

flood-manager

ting in Bangkok in January 2012, international experts discussed

flood preparedness, response, recovery, and experiences and strategies to reduce the risk
of flooding in a range of countries. Read more at adb.org/news

 

SOUTHEASTASIA 35The growing importance ADB accords to the private sector is a
result of a critical shift in thinking about the sector’s contribution to
meeting global development challenges such as poverty and climate
change. ADB’s Private Sector Development Strategy (2000) and
Private Sector Development: A Revised Strategic Framework (2006)
direct it to help create the appropriate environment for the private
sector, generate public goods and services with active private sector
involvement, and directly invest in private sector activities that have
development impact.

Private sector development (PSD) refers to initiatives to
improve the business environment, increase private investment
in developing member countries (DMCs), develop publicprivate partnerships (PPPs), and undertake privatization and/or
corporatization of publicly held entities.

ADB's private sector operations (nonsovereign operations
[NSOs]) refer to direct financial and technical support to entities
majority owned by the private sector (private nonsovereign
operations [NSO — private]), as well as to subsovereign entities
majority owned by the public sector that can contract and obtain
financing independently (public nonsovereign operations
[NSO - public]).

ADB's Strategy 2020 reinforces the institutional importance of
PSD and private sector operations by recognizing them as key drivers
of change for development, and requiring that 50% of ADB’s annual
operations support these areas by 2020.

An important factor for attracting private investment is
reliable infrastructure. While ADB directly finances investments in
infrastructure undertaken by governments and private sponsors,
it also, increasingly, identifies projects suitable for PPPs in which
investors partly finance and share risk to deliver goods and services.

The PPP Operational Plan approved in 2012 provides a clear
operational framework for developing PPPs and reinforces the
need to engage the private sector for transparent, efficient, and
cost-effective delivery of public goods and services.

DEVELOPING
THE PRIVATE SECTOR

In parallel to these internal organizational efforts that define
why and how ADB works with the private sector, a group of
31 development finance institutions, including ADB, have
published a joint report to articulate the development rationale for
international financial institutions’ support for the private sector.

The report has been widely disseminated and has helped
consolidate the position of multilateral development banks
(MDBs) in relation to the private sector. ADB’s President, along
with the heads of other MDBs, endorsed a set of core principles for
supporting the private sector during the Heads of MDBs meeting in
April. These principles guide operational strategies to avoid creating
market distortions, develop sustainable markets, and demonstrate
the value of MDB support for the private sector.

Supporting Private Sector Development

Increasing support for PSD is evident in the rising share of projects
that contribute to it. In 2012, 40% of ADB’s total approved sovereign
and nonsovereign projects contributed to PSD.

In June, the President approved a new PSD classification
methodology whereby projects must clearly demonstrate how they
will address PSD constraints identified in the partnership strategy for
a specific country or region.

Creating a Conducive Environment for Business
ADB supports policy and regulatory reforms that help to create an
environment in which the private sector can develop and flourish.
Assistance can include support for strengthening legal and judicial
reforms; formulating sound and transparent regulations; simplifying
business processes; promoting capital markets; and improving fiscal,
monetary, and trade policies. ADB is also working with countries on
financial intermediation systems that can channel domestic savings
toward productive private sector-led investments.

Across DMCs, ADB-supported efforts are relieving
bottlenecks for private investment. In 2012, substantial progress was

ADB's Investment Climate Improvement Program grant in the Kyrgyz Republic has

Uae emrafeesat aCe sg leel cer mae get Rael aI ele ae S gen Mee enc ag talc rclaTc

improve long-term development prospects. There is a noticeable increase in demand
for similar programs by neighboring developing member countries. Read more at

adb.org/projects

 

36 ADBANNUAL REPORT 2012BY THE NUMBERS

PCCW Ruta Coll emetic}

ASE alice

RMR a een ole
BUN CRT acme oor re co}
Gitta wore el Birgit)

50

2012 OPERATIONAL HIGHLIGHTS
Approved Assistance by Subsector
NSO - Public

ERE SERRE:

NSO - Private $million

20
CLEAN ENERGY

LARGE AND MEDIUM-SIZED.
ENTERPRISES

WASTE MANAGEMENT

  

MULTISECTOR
BANKING SYSTEMS

CONVENTIONAL ENERGY

AGRICULTURAL
PRODUCTION AND MARKETS
SLUM UPGRADING

‘AND HOUSING

FINANCE SECTOR
DEVELOPMENT

MICROFINANCE

HOUSING FINANCE

made in the Pacific region, which included work under the Pacifi
Private Sector Development Initiative. ADB welcomed the passage
of the Secured Transactions Act in Palau, which it helped draft
following extensive national consultations. ADB technical assistance
also resulted in the Timor-Leste Cabinet’s endorsement of a PPP
policy and law.

In Central and West Asia, a program in the Kyrgyz Republic
has initiated comprehensive reforms to encourage the private
sector and improve long-term development prospects. Important
breakthroughs under the program included the establishment of
one-stop shop online interfaces for business registration and tax
declarations, and reducing the number of licenses required by 20%.

The development of capital markets and financial
intermediation helps to more efficiently channel funds toward
worthy business activities. A $300 million program in Indonesia
aims to foster economic development by strengthening regulatory
oversight which, in turn, will increase stability and investor
confidence. It aims to deepen the capital market, expand access to
nonbank financing, and broaden the investor base.

In Mongolia, the amendment to the Foreign Investment Law
in May outlined the government approval process for foreign direct
investments. In Viet Nam, ADB approved a $40 million loan and
$500,000 technical assistance grant for a development program to
support government reforms aimed at assisting the microfinance
sector. In the People’s Republic of China (PRC), a $20 million
Microfinance Wholesale Lending Facility will offer financing to
participating banks to develop the wholesale lending market for
microcredit companies. Both microfinance investments will promote
access to credit for households and micro and small enterprises.

 

ogee te) Sete ace
Paleo] )ofoa a layed
sector development and
operations by 2020

 

Approved Assistance by Country
Mi NSO- Public Mi NSO-Private $million

 

Projects supporting
private sector

el oteyelat cats

33% in 2011
40% in 2012

Private sector operations have more
than doubled in the past 6 years.
In 2012, ADB approved

$2.04 billion

for 22 ae ey projects,
of which 19 were NSO - private and
Parra Oma yi eie att

Alignment with Strategy 2020
Core Operational Areas (%)

lM NSO- Public Ml NSO - Private

 

Promoting Public Sector Goods and Services
During the year, ADB continued to help DMCs through its PPP
advisory and PPP project development services.

ADB won its first PPP advisory mandate in Mongolia, where it
provided advice on the structuring of a $900 million, 450-megawatt
combined heat and power project. A transaction advisory services
team was established for Central and West Asia and is working on
developing business opportunities in multiple sectors. In the Pacific,
three PPPs are at different stages of development. The Betano
power plant operation and maintenance (Timor-Leste) and Lae Port
(Papua New Guinea) are at pre-feasibility stage, while a submarine
cable project in Solomon Islands (public sector loan) was approved.

The $20 million PPP support project loan to Viet Nam is
expected to help identify bankable and commercially viable projects
and strengthen the PPP framework and institutional capacity.

In Bangladesh, ADB has supported development and
implementation of a comprehensive national PPP framework.
Under the newly established national PPP office, the government
has committed $12 million as seed capital to finance facilities critical
for developing high-quality PPP projects, and $325 million for a
complementary viability gap finance fund.

With ADB support, the Kyrgyz Republic enacted the first law
on PPPs in the region that is in line with international good practices.
In the Pacific, five state-owned enterprises were privatized over the
last 5 years, and three PPP transactions were prepared.

Funding Private Sector Growth

ADB has embraced the concept of Finance++, under which, in
addition to providing direct financing, it supports private sector

DEVELOPING THE PRIVATESECTOR 37clients with financial leveraging, and brings about higher standards
in operations, introduces new technologies, and continuously
promotes innovation.

In 2012, ADB approved $2.04 billion, including B loans, for
22 NSO projects (19 NSO - private and 3 NSO — public), including
three regional projects. While a large proportion of NSOs were in the
PRC and India, ADB also made its first NSO — private investment
in the Kyrgyz Republic.

Direct value-added cofinancing for NSOs was $6,116 million.

Of this, official cofinancing of $19 million from ADB’s Clean
Technology Fund comprised $15 million and $4 million loans to

38 ADBANNUAL REPORT 2012

cofinance a provincial solar power project and a wind power project
in Thailand, respectively. Commercial cofinancing comprised
$200 million in syndications/B loans (including $100 million ina
local currency complementary B loan), $2,344 million cofinancing
for the Trade Finance Program (TFP), $3,341 million in parallel
loans, cofinancing of guarantees of $86.5 million, and risk transfer
of $126 million ($50.5 million for NSO - private and $75.5 million
for NSO - public).

Technical assistance of $5.05 million was also provided for
nonsovereign clients, of which $1.9 million accounted for project
preparatory technical assistance and $2.5 million for capacityBoost for Wind Power in India

 

In 2008, ADB approved a loan of up to $113 million to Gujarat Paguthan Energy Corporation (GPEC), now
known as CLP India (CIPL). The financing was for two wind power projects—100.8 megawatts at Samana,
Gujarat, and 82.4 megawatts at Saundatti, Karnataka. ADB assessments in 2012 show both projects have
been reliable, with an availability ratio in excess of 95%, and CIPL has scaled up its wind power operations

in India to include seven other wind farms.

development technical assistance, including $1.5 million for
commercial banks to execute the TFP.

ADB continues to explore and, when possible, arrange local
currency financing in response to demand from potential investees
whose revenues are denominated in local currency. The increase in
liquidity of the regional financial markets has allowed ADB, in some
cases, to generate local currency funds with tenors exceeding 10 years,
which could then be used for long-term projects, particularly those
related to infrastructure. In 2012, several guarantees denominated in
local currencies were processed and approved.

ADB created the Treasury Client Solutions Unit in its
Treasury Department to improve its outreach to clients and
be more responsive to client needs on prudent financial
management and local currency capabilities. This unit will focus
on mobilizing local currency savings, strengthening domestic
capital markets in DMCs, developing clients’ capacity in debt and
financial management, and offering financial products tailored to
clients’ needs. These services are also expected to benefit ADB’s
nonsovereign clients.

Nonsovereign Operations — Private

Capital Markets and Financial Services

ADB made a number of investments, particularly in Central

and West Asia, to help commercial banks grow and increase

their outreach to clients while improving their risk management
capabilities. A loan of $10 million was approved for the Kyrgyz
Investment and Credit Bank for financing small and medium
sized enterprises (SMEs) in 2012, ADB’s first private sector
operation in the country. Similarly, a $6 million equity investment
was made in Ipak Yuli Bank in Uzbekistan to provide capital to
expand SME operations. In Sri Lanka, ADB provided $15 million to
DFCC Vardhana Bank to expand its housing finance program for
low-income households in response to growing demand from former
conflict-affected areas as well as those undergoing reconstruction. In
middle-income countries, ADB seeks to develop strategic financial
services. In India, a $100 million investment was made in ICICI Bank
for a line of credit exclusively earmarked for renewable energy and
energy efficiency projects, while in the Philippines, a $25 million
equity investment in a private equity fund will help upgrade the

 

ADB was recognized in 2012 for its contributions to project finance. Project Finance

magazine presented it with the Middle East Renewables Deal of the Year prize for Pakistan’s

Zorlu Enerji wind power project. It won the Asia Pacific Power Deal of the Year from

Project Finance International for the Ayudhaya natural gas project, and Trade Finance

presented it with the Best Development Finance Institution in Asia-Pacific award.

 

DEVELOPING THE PRIVATESECTOR 39Solar Success
In Thailand, one of the world’s largest solar farms is not only reducing the kingdom’s reliance on fossil fuels

but benefiting neighboring communities. The 73-megawatt Lopburi solar plant operated by Natural Energy

Development in Khok Samrong District in central Thailand runs silently, emits no pollutants, and has

brought job opportunities to the area. The plant’s development was helped by an ADB long-term loan
of $70 million equivalent in Thai baht—28% of the total project cost of $250 million.

country’s aging infrastructure. The fund will target five to 10
investments of $50 million to $125 million each to provide portfolio
diversification, while ensuring that the fund manager has sufficient
resources to actively manage each investment.

Infrastructure

ADB continued its support for renewable energy generation through
solar, waste-to-energy, and wind energy projects. In Rajasthan,
India, it provided a loan of $103 million toward the construction of

a $415 million, 10O-megawatt concentrating solar power project
(CSP)—one of the largest CSP projects in the world using linear
Fresnel reflector technology, which can concentrate the sun’s
energy to approximately 30 times normal intensity. The success of
this project is expected to have strong demonstration effects for
replication of the technology. In Thailand, support was continued for
the development of natural gas, wind, and solar energy. This support
included $25 million and $185 million loans for solar power and
natural gas projects, respectively. In the PRC, $200 million in loans
were provided to support the fledgling waste-to-energy industry.
Uncontrolled incineration of agricultural waste and untreated
municipal solid waste is a growing health concern because these
practices emit harmful gases such as methane, pollute groundwater,
and contaminate soil. ADB investments in the deployment of clean
waste management technologies had the added benefit of allowing
heat to be recovered from waste and used for power production.

A follow-on investment of $95 million was made for a project to
control water pollution and ensure the safe treatment of sludge

in the Songhua River Basin. In Uzbekistan, an integrated gasto-chemicals project is being developed to add considerable
economic value to gas, the country’s main natural resource.

 

40 ADBANNUAL REPORT 2012

New Sectors and Initiatives

ADB invested in new areas in 2012. Initiatives included a

$100 million investment in the regional Climate Public-Private
Partnership Fund, which combines private sector investment
expertise with funding from development finance institutions

to provide equity, debt, and grant facilities for environment and
climate-related projects in DMCs. An innovative $35 million slum
rehabilitation project in Pune, India, will rehabilitate a slum area and
develop residential and commercial space to provide better housing
for slum inhabitants, and provide additional housing and retail
facilities on a commercial basis for other residents of the city. To
promote agribusiness in Bangladesh, a leading food group received a
$25 million loan to build three new production facilities and expand
its operations. The project will help improve nutrition through the
supply of flour fortified with vitamins and minerals, and create
significant employment opportunities for farmers and retailers. In
Pakistan, efforts are under way to develop ADB's first private sector
project in education that will use information and communication
technology to deliver education and training to remote areas.

A notable initiative is inclusion of Development Effectiveness
indicators in legal agreements between private sponsors and ADB.

Nonsovereign Operations - Public
Three NSO - public projects were developed by ADB’s public and
private sector staff—the Partial Credit Guarantee Facility for Credit
Enhancement of Project Bonds in India, the Microfinance Wholesale
Lending Facility in the PRC, and the Tianjin Cold Chain Logistics
Facility in the PRC.

As commercial banks in India approach their allowed sector
exposure limits for infrastructure, the country faces a paucityof infrastructure finance. The $128 million credit enhancement
facility, developed jointly by ADB with India Infrastructure Finance
Company and domestic finance companies, is designed to provide
credit enhancement to infrastructure bond issuers, to raise their
ratings to AA and above. This would allow investments from pension
funds and insurance firms, which are under statutory obligation to
invest only in assets rated AA or above.

The Microfinance Wholesale Lending Facility in the PRC,
approved in March, will offer CNY130 million ($20 million) to
participating partner banks to develop the wholesale lending market
for microcredit companies. The facility will promote access to
credit for households and micro and small enterprises, particularly
in rural areas.

ADB also approved a loan of up to CNY150 million
($24 million) for the Tianjin Cold Chain Logistics Facility
Development Project, its first participation in the logistics sector in
the PRC. The project is located in the Tianjin Port Container Logistics
Center, and will feature a large-capacity cold storage food facility
combined with a customs inspection service facility. The facility is
expected to be used as a model for best practices in international
common warehouse and logistics management, and trading systems.

Providing Access to Trade Finance
Trade finance is essential to ensure the continuity of cross-border
trade and maintain the momentum of economic growth. In 2012,
ADB lifted the sunset clause of its TFP, granting smaller firms access
to trade finance by providing guarantees and loans to banks in
support of trade in the most challenging markets.

In 2012, the TFP supported $4 billion of trade, up from
$3.5 billion in 2011. From the total 2012 TFP figure of $4 billion, ADB
supported $1.6 billion on a stand-alone basis (for ADB’s account)
and $2.3 billion via cofinancing with partner commercial banks
and risk distribution partners (insurance companies, export credit

agencies, and development entities). A total of 2,032 transactions
were supported by the TFP in 2012, of which 1,366 supported intraregional trade and 296 supported trade between DMCs. The number
of SMEs supported by the TFP in 2012 was 1,577, up from 668 in
2011. The TFP covered 18 countries in 2012, compared to 16 in 2011,
and its most active markets in 2012 were Bangladesh, Mongolia,
Pakistan, Sri Lanka, Uzbekistan, and Viet Nam. Over 90% of the
TFP’s 2012 transactions were in Asian Development Fund countries.

 

Sharing Knowledge and Experience

ADB documents and shares with its public and private sector
clients solutions to development issues based on its research
and experience. For instance, a comprehensive study on the
regulatory, operating, and market environment for microfinance
in five Asian countries has been completed by the Private Sector
Operations Department and will guide future investments in
this industry.

Moreover, the performance of state-owned enterprises
throughout the Pacific has been tracked through the Finding Balance
publications, the third of which was published in 2012. This is the
first publication to measure the economic impact of state-owned
enterprises on the economies of the Pacific, identify the drivers of
poor performance, and set out recommendations for reform.

To expand knowledge about nontraditional financing
modalities, in March, ADB organized a workshop for senior
government officials in Kathmandu, Nepal, on Managing Credit
Enhancement Products. ADB staff also led discussions on private
sector operations and commercial cofinancing products during
two workshops organized by the Asian EXIM Banks Forum, inviting
private sector experts to speak about their experience with ADB
and commercial cofinancing. In April, staff organized a regional
Asia Finance and Risk Mitigation Forum in Manila, Philippines, for
a wide range of public and private sector clients.

 

The third annual report on the development effectiveness of ADB’s private sector operations reviews
how it has contributed to promoting ADB’s development effectiveness agenda. Released in June

2012, Development Effectiveness Report 2011: Private Sector Operations features the direct and

indirect impact of private sector assistance in Asia and the Pa

corporate results framework. Download at

ific. Data are consistent with ADB’s

Tesfede

 

DEVELOPING THE PRIVATESECTOR 41DELIVERING AN EFFECTIVE

In 2012, ADB reviewed and adjusted its policies, procedures, and
structure to ensure that it used resources efficiently and delivered
results. To meet new challenges, ADB continues to transform itself
to become a more relevant, responsive, and effective contributor to
inclusive and sustainable growth and poverty reduction.

ADB pioneered the use of a corporate results framework in
2008 to measure the effectiveness and efficiency of its operations.
A review of the Results Framework began in January 2012 to ensure
its continued relevance as a corporate performance management
tool. In addition, to ensure it stays responsive to the evolving
needs of clients, ADB completed the review of its Accountability.
Mechanism and introduced the piloting of new lending instruments,
introduced a Disaster Response Facility, and initiated development
of a Results-Based Lending for Programs policy.

In line with the findings of the 2011 Development
Effectiveness Report, ADB’s reform efforts focused on improving the
implementation and outcomes of projects. In 2012, stricter qualityat-entry filters were introduced, more rigorous review of social
and environmental safeguards was implemented, and assessment
of implementing agencies’ capacity was improved. To strengthen
supervision of projects and portfolios, operational departments
increased the frequency of review missions, monitored portfolio
quality more closely, and conducted quarterly tripartite portfolio
review meetings with developing member countries (DMCs).

ADB also mainstreamed the use of country and sector results
frameworks in managing country programs through regular staff
training and quality assurance support. Automation initiatives, staff
delegation, and enhanced due diligence and capacity development
also helped to improve the way in which projects were implemented.

For the past 2 years, ADB has been named one of the
most admired knowledge enterprises in Asia, and has taken steps
to strengthen its capabilities for designing and implementing a
knowledge-based operation. In 2012, a new Knowledge Sharing
and Services Center was established to support knowledge sharing,
learning, and related support services across ADB and in DMCs.

ORGANIZATION

To make the most of its resources, ADB continued to
improve the way in which human resources are managed and to
streamline business processes to reduce duplication and further
clarify responsibilities. A new vice-president for administration and
corporate management was appointed to improve management of
both finance and administration. In addition, a 3-year workforce plan
was completed to address the resource and skills gap. Compared
with 2009, staffing in priority sectors and themes has increased by
about 39%.

Policy and Strategy Overview—Achievements in 2012

Review of ADB Results Framework

The corporate results framework was adopted in 2008 to

monitor progress toward the goals of ADB’s long-term strategic
framework, Strategy 2020. In January 2012, a review of the
framework was initiated to ensure it continues to be a relevant
corporate performance management tool. The review assessed the
framework’s achievements and challenges associated with its use,
examined good practices, and consulted stakeholders on areas in
which it can be strengthened. It proposed several improvements,
including incorporation of inclusive economic growth indicators;
more focus on project outcomes, sustainability, and implementation;
and improved measurement of nonsovereign operations, budget
efficiency and adequacy, and decentralization.

Review of the Accountability Mechanism Policy

The revised Accountability Mechanism became effective in 2012.
The mechanism provides an independent forum for people affected
by ADB-assisted projects to voice their problems, seek solutions,
and report alleged violations by ADB of its operational policies and
procedures. The review confirmed that the mechanism was sound,
but made recommendations to make it more participatory, credible,
and effective. Reforms included direct access to complainants for
compliance review, with a single entry point for all complaints.

The Global Go To Think Tanks Report, published by the University of Pennsylvania, rated
the Asian Development Bank Institute (ADBI) as the 10th best government-affiliated think

ADBIinstitute

tank in the world. The report ranked ADBI above other research institutes with greater

financial and staff resources. ADBI’s work covers applied research, policy seminars designed

to disseminate thinking about best practices in development,

nd a range of capacity
building and training initiatives. Read more at adb.org/news

 

42. ADBANNUAL REPORT 2012Annual Meeting Advances Asia’s Development Agenda

 

ADB’s meeting in Manila, Philippines, in May gathered a record number of 5,000 delegates including finance

ministers and other key policy makers, business leaders, academics, civil society representatives, and media.

Key issues at the meeting included what Asia must do to adapt to the global economic downturn, build

resilience in urban centers, promote green growth, ensure food security, and grow trade between Asia and Latin

America. The theme of “Inclusive Growth through Better Governance and Partnerships” provided a platform

to discuss one of the region’s most pressing issues: how to bring the benefits of Asia’s rapid growth to all.

Piloting a Disaster Response Facility

In November, the Board approved the Disaster Response Facility
under the Asian Development Fund (ADF) on a pilot basis.
Supporting disaster responses of DMCs is integral to the poverty
reduction missions of ADB and other multilateral development
banks. Disaster responses are constrained by the difficulty that

ADF countries—especially the most vulnerable and poorest
DMCs—face in accessing sufficient resources. The pilot facility is a
step toward a more flexible, predictable, and systematic approach to
responding to natural disasters.

Piloting Results-Based Lending for Programs

ADB initiated development of a policy for piloting results-based
lending for programs to support government-owned sector
programs, linking disbursements directly with the achievement of
results. The objectives of this modality are to increase accountability
and incentives to deliver results, improve the efficiency of
government-owned sector programs, promote institutional
development, support development coordination, and enhance
development effectiveness. The policy will be discussed by the
Board in 2013.

Safeguards

ADB's Safeguard Policy Statement became effective in January
2010. To ensure sound policy implementation, 40 staff positions
have been added for safeguard work, more than 800 staff have
been trained, and technical assistance projects totaling $15 million
are being implemented to help DMCs strengthen country
safeguard systems. A joint ADB/Australian Agency for International

Development/Japan International Cooperation Agency/World Bank
Community of Practice was established in 2012 to provide capacity
development support to DMCs, which will include the establishment
of centers of excellence.

All projects were screened and reviewed for potential
impacts related to the environment, involuntary resettlement,
and Indigenous Peoples, and ADB assisted borrowers to adopt
mitigation measures to address such impacts. Of the 114 projects
approved in 2012, 76 (67%) were deemed to have potential
environmental impacts, 58 (51%) to have potential involuntary
resettlement impacts, and 12 (11%) to have potential impacts on
Indigenous Peoples.

Ensuring ADB Makes a Difference

Managing for Development Results
ADB's 2011 Development Effectiveness Review was presented to the
Board of Governors and other stakeholders during the 45th Annual
Meeting in Manila. The report evaluated ADB’s progress against
the Strategy 2020 results framework, and highlighted performance
trends and steps that Management must take to improve development effectiveness. Implementation of these actions was
reflected in the Work Program and Budget Framework 2013-2015.
To improve communication about results with its
stakeholders, ADB developed new pages on its website that
will provide easier access to data at the corporate, country,
and project levels from January 2013. Guidelines for preparing
country development effectiveness briefs were also refined to
reflect contributions to country outcomes more clearly. Country

DELIVERING AN EFFECTIVE ORGANIZATION 43Fighting Fraud and Corruption in ADB Projects
ADB recognizes that staff and stakeholders form the front line in its fight against corruption. Staff are

obligated to uphold the highest professional and ethical standards. ADB’s Office of Anticorruption and
Integrity organizes regular knowledge support activities to improve integrity detection and prevention skills
within ADB and in its developing member countries. Activities in 2012 included a week-long program of

events to celebrate International Anticorruption Day, which attracted over 500 participants and featured

a campaign of management and staff supporting “iACT: | fight corruption!” —ADB?’s anticorruption slogan.

 

development effectiveness briefs were prepared for Indonesia, the
Federated States of Micronesia, the Philippines, Solomon Islands,
and Sri Lanka.

Results-based work plans aligned with Strategy 2020 goals
were implemented at all levels of the organization. ADB consolidated
country, sector, and project results management through exchanges
of good practices and skills training. As part of its continuing efforts
to mainstream results orientation in member countries, it deepened
its support for the Asia-Pacific Community of Practice on Managing
for Development Results’ country programs in Cambodia, Malaysia,
and Mongolia. A framework and a rapid assessment guide for resultsbased public sector management were developed.

Promoting Effective Implementation

In 2012, automation initiatives, staff delegation, enhanced due
diligence, and capacity development provided impetus for effective
project implementation. The automation initiatives resulted in
significant efficiency gains in procurement. For example, the
recruitment time for consultants was reduced from an average of
160 days before the implementation of the Consultant Management
System to 60 days. The posting of procurement specialists to
resident missions and more frequent assessments of procurement
implementation contributed to a 20% drop in noncompliance of bids
and accelerated project processing. The Procurement Accreditation
Skills Scheme (PASS) was rolled out. Over 500 regional department
staff were nominated, of whom 288 successfully completed three
mandatory PASS e-learning modules. A comprehensive review of
the project administration instructions was initiated to streamline
procurement-related business processes.

44 =ADBANNUAL REPORT 2012

ADB also supported capacity building of its staff, government
officials, and consultants through outreach initiatives to encourage
business opportunities, procurement and project implementation
clinics, and project design and performance management courses.
n addition to providing regular reports to Management and the
Board on the status of its portfolio, ADB prepared the 2011 Portfolio
Performance Report, providing a deep analysis of portfolio issues.

Progress on Aid Effectiveness Agenda

The Global Partnership on Effective Development Cooperation
jaunched during the Fourth High Level Forum on Aid Effectiveness in
December 2011, established a foundation for effective cooperation
in international development. Global governance and monitoring
rameworks related to the Global Partnership were developed in
2012, with ADB playing a proactive role in their development.

ADB remains committed to effective development
cooperation and has embedded many principles into its core
business and operations. Examples are provided throughout this
report and include an improved results focus at all levels (through
measures that include refining of its Corporate Results Framework)
and enhanced transparency and accountability (through measures
that include compliance with the common standard for electronic
publication of aid data of the International Aid Transparency
Initiative and launch of the ADB section in AidFlows, and the 2011.

Public Communications Policy).

 

 

Ensuring Accountability and Compliance
Changes to the Accountability Mechanism—the independent forum
for complaints—were approved in February and made effective inMay. The changes clearly define the functions of problem solving
under the Office of the Special Project Facilitator (OSPF) and
compliance review done by the Compliance Review Panel in
addition to ADB’s Board oversight function on compliance review.
To introduce the 2012 Accountability Mechanism Policy, OSPF
and the Office of Compliance Review Panel (OCRP) conducted
outreach missions in Mongolia, Australia, Canada, and the
United States. Staff were briefed on the changes.

Using a partnership approach, OSPF facilitated action that
led to satisfactory solutions and closure of two complaints in 2012
in Kazakhstan and Pakistan. Project complaints were also resolved
in Cambodia. Lessons from the 2012 complaints indicate that
working on problem solving with all stakeholders leads to tangible,
sustainable, and beneficial results. Outreach missions have
fostered better engagement with stakeholders concerning the
new policy and procedures.

OCRP received two eligible requests for compliance
review in Cambodia and Indonesia, and both investigations
are under way. During the year, two reviews were completed in the
Kyrgyz Republic and the Philippines.

 

Independent Evaluation for Development Effectiveness

ADB's Independent Evaluation Department (IED) continued

to strengthen ADB’s development effectiveness. In 2012, the
department devoted more effort to corporate, thematic, country,
and sector evaluations to complement project-level evaluations;
emphasized relevance and strategic positioning in project- and
country-level evaluations; implemented stronger quality-control
mechanisms; engaged in more in-depth consultations with
operations and knowledge departments to strengthen its learning
function and operational relevance; produced more reader-friendly
evaluation reports; and ensured effective dissemination of evaluation
findings. Key reports produced included special evaluation studies
on social protection, microfinance, natural disasters, knowledge
product and services, multitranche financing facilities; country
assistance program evaluations for Afghanistan and the Kyrgyz
Republic; and an impact study on community groundwater irrigation
project in Nepal.

To build stronger links, IED met more often with the full Board
to discuss select reports, including the 2012 Annual Evaluation
Review. The Annual Evaluation Review highlighted the importance
of intersectoral linkages to achieve greater development impacts,
and the crucial role that noncore operational areas can play in
this respect. IED also kept the Board informed on ongoing and
completed evaluations through evaluation alerts on a monthly basis;
held informal seminars to discuss how to further strengthen the
effectiveness of evaluation in terms of potential value, focus, and
quality; and participated more frequently in various Board meetings
and discussions.

Transparency and Disclosure

ADB's new Public Communications Policy (PCP) became effective
on 2 April 2012. The revised PCP expands and speeds up access

to information, through measures that include the disclosure of
audited project financial statements, earlier disclosure of Board
documents (reports and recommendations of the President [RRPs]

and country partnership strategies [CPSs]), and through more
public communications with stakeholders. The revised policy also
incorporated a second-tier Independent Appeals Panel (IAP) for
denied information requests. The three external members of the
IAP were appointed in June.

ADB conducted organization-wide briefings on the PCP 2011
in the first and second quarters of 2012. Extensive outreach sessions
were also carried out for external stakeholders in 13 countries,
attracting more than 500 participants. ADB will continue to build
staff and external stakeholders’ support and capacity to deliver
improved transparency and disclosure compliance.

Under the revised policy, ADB’s website continues to be
the primary vehicle to disclose information proactively about its
work and opinions with stakeholders and the public. In 2012,

ADB posted over 4,200 documents and reports on the site.

There were more than 2.43 million visitors to ADB.org during the
year. The translation of documents into various languages increased
by 12% compared to the previous year. For example, the PCP 2011
was translated into 14 languages and the translations were made
publicly available.

The third global perceptions survey for opinion leaders and
ADB clients across 31 member countries commenced in 2012. The
purpose of the survey is to assess perceptions about development
issues in Asia and the Pacific and the role ADB plays within this
context. It is critical that ADB objectively considers its environment
and the way its clients, partners, and stakeholders perceive it so that
it can operate as effectively as possible. The survey, conducted every
3 years, is one of the monitoring mechanisms of the PCP. Results are
expected in the second quarter of 2013.

Strengthening Learning

Knowledge

The Knowledge Management Framework, formulated in 2004,
pursues two mutually supportive outcomes: increased assimilation
of and dissemination by ADB of relevant, high-quality knowledge to
DMCs and other stakeholders; and enhanced learning within ADB.
To assess progress, annual surveys to gauge staff perceptions against
eight most admired knowledge enterprises (MAKE) performance
measures have been conducted. From 2007, the results have been
integrated in the annual Development Effectiveness Review.

ADB was declared an Asian MAKE winner in 2011 and 2012.
The first award cited its collaborative enterprise-wide knowledge
sharing, while the second recognized its work to devise knowledgebased products, services, and solutions. In 2012, a Knowledge
Sharing and Services Center was established to link generators and
users of knowledge, both within ADB and in its DMCs.

The Special Evaluation Study (SES) on Knowledge Products
and Services provided insights into how ADB can become a more
effective knowledge institution by adopting a stronger strategic
direction, with more effective prioritization, clarity, coordination,
quality assurance, accountability, and stakeholder buy-in.

Learning and Development

Since 2011, ADB’s staff development policies and programs have
been designed to equip staff with the knowledge, competencies, and

DELIVERING AN EFFECTIVE ORGANIZATION 45skills they need to do their jobs as effectively as possible, thereby
improving development outcomes. Managerial and leadership
development support has also been strengthened.

Aligned with the priority areas of Strategy 2020 and using
the ADB Results Framework indicators and results of special
evaluation studies, training programs delivered in the past 2 years
have revolved around ADB's project cycle. Courses on project design
and management, financial management and analysis of projects,
procurement, mission leadership, integrity and due diligence were
delivered in 2012.

One such example is the introduction of the Procurement
Accreditation Skills Scheme, which aims to reduce overall levels of
procurement-related risks to ADB, its borrowers, and stakeholders.
The Communities of Practice also continue to be partners in
expanding the sector and thematic expertise of staff through
seminars, workshops, and external networks. DMC counterparts
and development partners participated in several sector and
thematic knowledge-sharing sessions and forums. A notable
improvement is the high rate of participation of field office
staff in in-house training programs. The use of eLearn and the
implementation of the information technology (IT) hub training
have helped make learning programs more accessible to staff, while
IT training ensured that development of IT skills is aligned with the
evolving business requirements.

The impact on training and development approaches is being
monitored primarily through the Results Framework indicators. The
results of the Staff Engagement Survey to gauge the relevance and
effectiveness of development programs, and the 2012 survey results
for the training category, have improved significantly from 2010. This
suggests that staff believe that training and learning support have
helped them be more effective in their jobs.

In 2012, the Asian Development Bank Institute in
Tokyo prepared a results framework for its three main areas of
activity—research, capacity building and training, and knowledge
dissemination—the first such initiative among multilateral
development banks.

Making the Most of ADB Resources

Improving Human Resources
An increase in staff in 2010-2012 has significantly strengthened
ADB's in-house skills in core operational areas and increased its
people's capacity to implement Strategy 2020. Compared with
2009, staffing in priority sectors and themes has increased by
about 39%.

The capacity of the operations departments and resident
missions, in particular, has been strengthened, especially in

project administration and portfolio management, safeguards
implementation and compliance, and gender and social
development. The skills mix has improved and new skills have been
acquired through recruitments to meet the evolving business focus.
Three priority areas have gained the largest resource increases:
resident mission strengthening, portfolio management and project
administration, as well as private sector development and private
sector operations.

Ninety-three percent of staff participated in ADB’s biennial
Staff Engagement Survey in May. Departments have since assessed
their results and developed action plans that will be implemented
during 2013. These plans target priority areas of performance
management, career development, rewards and recognition, and
work-life balance. Monitoring of their implementation will be
managed via biannual departmental status updates in 2013.

An extension of ADB’s gender action program (GAP III) has
contributed to a more supportive and enabling work environment
and culture. The representation of women among international staff
has increased to 34.2% with progress made at senior levels, including
field offices. The increasing numbers of women in decision making
enables ADB to leverage a wider range of knowledge, experiences,
and perspectives. Our teams are more representative of, and
responsive to, our client and stakeholder bases.

The Board approved new salary structures to commence on
1 January 2013, and a 3.2%, 5.0%, and 6.3% weighted average salary
increase for international staff, national staff and administrative staff
(NSAS) in headquarters, and NSAS in field offices, respectively.
Management approved changes to benefits policies to unify them
where feasible, align benefits with those in similar organizations, and
simplify administration. Benefits changes fully implemented in 2012
included the new Rental Allowance Scheme and changes to the
dependency allowance for NSAS working at headquarters.

ADB's Office of the Ombudsperson (OOMP) started
operations in January 2012. OOMP supplements and complements
ADB's formal dispute mechanism channels by providing staff with
confidential, impartial, informal, and independent assistance for the
resolution of workplace conflicts and issues. A total of 1,277 staff
members attended OOMP’s outreach in 2012; 137 cases were
opened and almost all issues were resolved informally. In OOMP’s
satisfaction survey, about 90% of the respondents (61% response
rate) were satisfied with OOMP’s services.

Internal Administrative Expenses

In 2012, ADB completes the 3-year transformation exercise
(2010-2012), which largely addressed resources gaps,
especially staffing constraints. Actual net internal administrative
expenses (IAE) for 2012, including those for IED, totaled

A ceremony in May at ADB headquarters marked the start of the 2-year construction of

the third atrium, an expansion that reflects ADB’s expanding operations and will provide

an additional 31,000-square-meter office and facilities space. The new building’s design
incorporates the latest in energy-efficient technologies and advanced international

standards in efficient building operation and maintenance.

 

46 ADBANNUAL REPORT 2012$531.3 million, representing a utilization rate of 97.5% against

the original budget of $544.8 million. The budget carryover of

$10.8 million, which is about 2.0% of net IAE, brought the net

IAE after carryover to $542.1 million. Savings against the original
budget mainly resulted from underspending in staff consultants and
business travel expenses.

The net IAE budget for 2013 is $576.6 million. The increase of
$31.9 million or 5.9% over the 2012 budget reflects a price increase
of 4.2% and a volume growth of 1.7%. The 2013 budget also includes
an annual capital budget of $7.4 million to fund cyclical capital
expenditures, similar to the 2012 capital budget of $7.5 million.

Organizational and Business Review
ADB continued to strengthen its organizational effectiveness and
efficiencies by streamlining business processes and through internal
realignments at no or minimal cost. Finance and administration,
which support ADB operations and knowledge works, was
strengthened through the appointment of a new vice-president
responsible for administration and corporate management and the
redesignation of the vice-president for finance and risk management.
Examples include the creation of the Knowledge Sharing and
Services Center to promote knowledge sharing and services
internally and externally, and the establishment of the Financial
Management Unit to enhance financial management oversight
throughout the project cycle.

In 2012, ADB also continued to focus on further improving
its lending instruments to respond to DMC needs, and to improve
internal efficiency by simplifying procedures and making greater
use of technology. Procedures on quality assurance mechanisms for
sovereign loan delivery and CPS preparation were revised and further
simplified. ADB’s business processes for CPS preparation and project
processing are now fully automated with e-Operations.

Strengthening Risk Management

ADB’s comprehensive risk management framework is designed to
develop a risk-aware culture and implement business processes that
allow departments and offices to monitor, mitigate, and manage

a variety of risks. In line with increased financing for private sector
development, ADB has strengthened its ability to manage the risks
associated with private sector lending. In 2012, a treasury risk
management technology platform was implemented to improve

the frequency, coverage, and functionality of investment and
counterparty risk reporting. ADB also made substantial progress
toward implementing a comprehensive credit risk management
technology platform and an operational risk management framework
across departmental lines.

Audit

ADB's Office of the Auditor General completed 26 audits in 2012
covering sovereign, nonsovereign, risk management, treasury
operations, finance and administration, and information systems and
technology activities. It conducted diagnostic reviews on eight field
offices, provided advisory support to address audit requirements of
donors and cofinanciers, provided inputs to operational and strategic

policy documents, and completed advisory reports on several
internal processes. The realignment program improved the impact,
efficiency, and effectiveness of the internal audit process.

Integrity and Anticorruption Activities

Working closely with other departments, the Office of
Anticorruption and Integrity strengthened measures to help prevent
integrity violations in ADB operations. In addition, it addressed
potential money-laundering and terrorism-financing risks in
nonsovereign and financial intermediation projects. Collaboration
with operations departments helped to improve project supervision
and outcomes, while the introduction of spot reviews provided for
prompt feedback and modifications.

Staff are at the front line of the fight against fraud and
corruption. An ongoing priority is to improve staff and stakeholders’
awareness of the Anticorruption Policy and develop their skills in
identifying and preventing integrity violations through anticorruption
training and workshops in DMCs. A successful outcome is measured
not by sanctions, but by the extent to which the findings of an
investigation can be incorporated into operational and procedural
processes to reduce the risk of corruption in future projects.

Administrative Services

Expansion of the ADB headquarters building with the construction
of a third atrium began in June. When completed in 2014, it will
provide an additional 31,000-square-meter office and facilities
space. The building is being constructed to meet advanced
international standards in environmentally efficient design,

and efficient building operation and maintenance.

ADB continued its green initiatives and resource conservation
programs to run an environment-friendly headquarters building and
reduce its carbon footprint. It also adopted a green procurement
policy for goods and services for administrative operations. Over the
last 9 years, cumulative savings in resource conservation have been
almost $800,000. In 2012, a 571-kilowatt peak photovoltaic solar
power generation plant was installed on the headquarters’ roof. The
plant supplies 613,000 kilowatt-hours, or 3.5%, of the headquarters’
annual energy needs.

Information Technology

In 2012, ADB's IT office was transferred to the Knowledge
Management and Sustainable Development vice presidency to
foster closer integration of information sharing and collaboration
solutions, and enhance platforms for communities of practice and
centers of excellence.

Infrastructure upgrade projects enabled delivery of IT
solutions and helped to meet the demand for services. Continuing
collaboration with a variety of departments on large |T-enabled
projects resulted in the delivery of a treasury risk management
solution. Continuing collaboration with various departments on
large IT-enabled projects achieved progress in asset and liability
management and service management projects. Overall, external
auditors found IT-related controls to be satisfactory under the
Internal Control for Financial Reporting review.

DELIVERING AN EFFECTIVE ORGANIZATION 47ADB AT A GLANCE

WHO WE ARE

 

 

An Asia and Pacific region
free of poverty

 

To help its developing members
reduce poverty and improve.
their living conditions and
quality of life

 

* Governments

* Private sector

* Nongovernment organizations

* Development agencies

* Community-based organizations
* Foundations |

 

 

In pursuing its vision, ADB’s
main instruments comprise
loans, technical assistance,
grants, guarantees, equity
investments, and policy dialogues.
Although most lending is

in the public sector—and_

to governments—ADB also
provides direct assistance to
private enterprises of developing
countries through equity _ '
investments, guarantees,

and loans. Its AAA credit

rating helps mobilize funds:

for development.

 

 

OUR STRUCTURE |

President la ~
Haruhiko Kuroda ;

Headquarters
Manila, Philippines

  
   
 
 
 
   
 

Founded
1966 ADB’s ownership profile
Members
48 UNITED
Regional STATES
members
Nonregional Ade TRAS
members
SHARES OF
REMAINING
62 MEMBERS
Field offices

3,045

Total employees

ASIA'S POVERTY
CHALLENGE
Two-thirds of

the world’s poor
live in Asia

  
   
 
     
  

OUR
STRATEGY

We are committed
to reducing poverty
through ...

Regional

integration
Inclusive
economic

growth
Environmentally
sustainable growth
What we promote

* Private sector development/
Operations

* Good governance and
capacity development

* Gender equity

* Knowledge solutions

¢ Partnerships

Key areas of operation

¢ Infrastructure
¢ Environment, including
climate change
¢ Regional cooperation
and integration
¢ Finance sector development
* Education

HOW WE
HELPED IN 2012

ADB assistance totaled

$21.57 billion

including $13.30 billion financed
by ADB and $8.27 billion
in cofinancing

   

   
   
 

.
ADB assistance by...
REGIONAL _
$0.48 billion | CENTRAL AND
. WEST ASIA
$6.28 billion
SOUTHEAST ASIA
$7.32 billion
. REGION,
PACIFIC i
$0.22 billion“
= ou ASIA
EASTASIA 5.03 billion
$2.24 billion
AGRICULTURE AND
MULTISECTOR  NATURALRESOURCES
$0.71 billion—, $1.30 billion
|
|
WATER SUPPLY AND i } ENT
OTHER MUNICIPAL. $0.31 billion
INFRASTRUCTURE \
‘AND SERVICES ENERGY
$1.36 billion $4.91 billion
TRANSPORT AND
INFORMATION AND
COMMUNICATION
TECHNOLOGY
$5.02 billion
PUBLICSECTOR
MANAGEMENT —~ FINANCE
$1.64 billion 7 — - $3.59 billion
INDUSTRY AND TRADE HEALTH AND.
$2.66 billion SOCIAL PROTECTION
$0.81 billion

 

Board of Directors Working Group on the Annual Report 2012
Andrew Collins (Chair),* Hideo Fukushima, Maureen Grewe,**
René Legrand, Siraj S. Shamsuddin, Guogi Wu * Publisher
Ann Quon * Managing Editor Andrew Perrin * Production
Managers Wickie H. Mercado, Miguel Paulino * Editorial
Bruce Heilbuth, Sandra Lodoen, Ma. Theresa Arago, Tuesday
Soriano, Anima Slangen * Design Anthony Victoria, Edith Creus,
Fred de Jesus, Jenina Alli * Cover and Design Concept Real Design
Associates * Information Graphics Businesswriters & Design +
Photo Credit ADB, unless credited otherwise.

* Richard Sisson replaced Andrew Collins on 13 February 2013.
** Maureen Grewe was appointed Chair on 12 January 2013, replacing
Andrew Collins in that capacity.

© 2013 Asian Development Bank

Every effort has been made to ensure the accuracy of the data
used in this publication. Variations in data in ADB publications often
result from different publication dates, although differences may
also come from source and interpretation of data. ADB accepts no
responsibility from any consequence of their use.

By making any designation of or reference to a particular
territory or geographic area, or by using the term “country” in this
document, ADB does not intend to make any judgments as to
the legal or other status of any territory or area.

In this publication, “$” refers to US dollars.

ISSN 306-8370
Publication Stock No. FLS124974

Printed in the Philippines

Asian Development Bank

6 ADB Avenue, Mandaluyong City
1550 Metro Manila, Philippines
www.adb.org

& The Annual Report 2012 is printed using vegetable oil-based
inks on recycled paper.