ZOO 5 ANNUAL REPORT

Asian Development BankThe Record

(amounts in $ million)

 

 

 

 

 

1966-2005 2002 2003 2004 2005
OPERATIONAL ACTIVITIES
LENDING (amount) 116,040 ° 5,658 > 6,085 5,239 © 5,797
Number of Projects® 1,940 70 66 63 64
Ordinary Capital Resources (OCR) Loans (amount) 84,630 ° 4,008 4,706 3,997" 4,421
Number of Loans 1,093 35 37 32 32
Disbursements (amount) 56,377 3,067 2,688 2,508 3,498
Asian Development Fund (ADF) Loans (amount) 31,411 1,650 1,379 1,242 1,376
Number of Loans 1,105 53 47 47 40
Disbursements (amount) 22,118 1,136 1,128 1,055 1,247
A.Government and Government-guaranteed Loans (amount) 113,648 5,548 5,918 4,947 5,261
Number of Projects‘ 1,846 67 62 58 58
OCR Loans (amount) 82,252 3,898 4,539 3,705 3,885
Number of Loans 1,000 32 33 27 25
Disbursements (amount) 54,945 3,011 2,575 2,399 3,294
ADF Loans (amount) 31,396 1,650 1,379 1,242 1,376
Number of Loans 1,100 53 47 47 40
Disbursements (amount) 22,103 1,136 1,128 1,055 1,247
B. Private Sector Loans (amount) 2,392 110 167 293 536
Number of Projects 94 3 4 5 7
OCR Loans (amount) 2,378 110 167 293° 536
Number of Loans 93° 3 4 oo 7;
Disbursements (amount) 1,432 55 113 109 204
ADF Loans (amount) 14 - - - Number of Loans 5 - - - Disbursements (amount) 14 - - - EQUITY INVESTMENT (amount) a2 36 36 164 217
Number of Investments 1376 4 3 ab 10
EQUITY UNDERWRITING (amount) 40 - - - Number of Commitments 6 - - - GUARANTEES 3,166 882 240 10 68
Number of Projects 25 4 3 1 2)
Political Risk Guarantee (amount) 763 382 70 10 50
Number of Projects 9 3 1 1 1
Partial Credit Guarantee (amount) 2,403 > 500 170 oO 18
Number of Projects 16% 1 2 ob 1
GRANTS (amount) 2,065 178 454 104 1,151
Number of Projects 151 27 12 27 51
TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE (amount) 2,782 ° 179 175 195° 199
Number of Projects 5,923» 323 3125 321% 299
MULTITRANCHE FINANCING FACILITIES? (amount) 1,520 0 0 0 1,520
Number of Facilities 2 0 0 0 2
COFINANCING® (amount) 49,492 2,713 2,563 2,437 7,385
Number of Projects 692 33 28 32 34
RESOURCES
Ordinary Capital Resources
Authorized Capital (at end of period) 50,163 47,288 51,997 54,162 50,163
Subscribed Capital (at end of period) 50,163 47,234 51,997 54,162 50,163
Borrowings (gross) 59,553 6,145 4,141 1,629 4,230
Outstanding Debt (at end of period) 24,454 26,324 26,359 24,212 24,454
Ordinary Reserve (at end of period) 8,957 8,470 8,892 8,865 8,957
Special Reserve (at end of period) 194 184 186 190 194
Gross Revenue 34,010 1,979 1,657 1,313 1,432
Net Income after Appropriation of Commissions/ 11,478 978 436 427 105
Guarantee Fees to Special Reserve
Special Funds Resources
Asian Development Fund Total Resources (at end of period) 27,605 22,853 26,759 29,571 27,605
Technical Assistance Special Fund Total Resources (at end of period) 1,257 920 1,006 1,062 1,257
Japan Special Fund
Regular and Supplementary Contributions (at end of period) 904 836 853 877 904
Asian Currency Crisis Support Facility 241 241 241 241 241
ADB Institute Special Fund Total Resources (at end of period) 110 1 83 96 110
Asian Tsunami Fund Total Resources 565 565
Pakistan Earthquake Fund Total Resources 85 85

Nil
Totals may not add due to rounding
Adjusted to exclude terminated loans/guarantees/equity investments/technical assistance.

Projects with multiple loans are counted once. Cumulative number of projects excludes supplementary loans
Multitranche financing facilities are facilities that will give rise to loans. Loans arising from the facilities are included under loans when they are approved by ADB.

These are non-ADB funds generated by ADB’s cofinancing operations for ADB projects.Asian Development Bank
2005 Annual Report

Contents

VOLUME 1

Chairman’s Message 2
Board of Directors’ Report 4
Operations 30

East and Central Asia 46
Mekong 60

Pacific 72

South Asia 82

Southeast Asia 94
Appendixes 104

Contact Addresses 114Chairman's

Message

ADB: Relevant, Responsive,
and Results-Focused

ragedy on a staggering scale was a
recurrent theme in Asia during 2005.
The year started with the international
community rushing to help survivors
of the Indian Ocean tsunami and ended with

the huge humanitarian task of sheltering

the millions whose homes were destroyed

in October by the South Asia earthquake.

Both catastrophes and the threat of avian
flu throughout the year illustrated Asia and the
Pacific's vulnerability to events that cannot be

contained within national borders.

At the same time, even as the region as
a whole has become a formidable player in the
global economy, large numbers of poor people
and growing inequality make evident that
not all are benefiting from strong economic
growth. Many countries are unlikely to reach
the non-income Millennium Development

Goals by 2015. Clearly, poverty reduction
remains the region's key challenge.

The Asian Development Bank faces these
and other emerging issues in its developing

member countries with hardened resolve.

We must pursue our vision of an Asia and
Pacific region free of poverty amidst a new era
of development in which nations, economies,
and societies are becoming more interdependent, more integrated. We will strive to help
the region and the countries become more
inclusive, with the benefits of dynamic growth

spread more equitably.
ADB sees regional cooperation and
integration as a powerful tool that can

complement national-level efforts aimed at
poverty reduction and shaping a better future.
In 2005, our efforts were rewarded as the
Central Asian nations and the countries that

 

President Kuroda visits women's hospital in Jaipur,
India, refurbished with ADB assistance

share the Mekong River started to benefit from
coordinated cross-border transport and energy
infrastructure plans. Recently too, with ADB's
help, these countries began to work together
to address issues that transcend borders,
such as environmental and health threats.

In 2005, ADB established the Office
of Regional Economic Integration to further
strengthen regional cooperation and
integration initiatives and to ensure that
they are coherent and strategically focused.

Cooperation with other development
partners also deepened over the course of the
year, in keeping with the commitment made in
March at the high-level forum at which more
than 100 countries and major international
agencies endorsed the Paris Declaration on Aid
Effectiveness. The international community also
reaffirmed its commitment to poverty reduction
and the Millennium Development Goals at the
United Nations Millennium+5 Summit in
September in New York. ADB contributed to
and participated in both these processes.

We must pursue our vision

of an Asia and Pacific region
free of poverty amidst a new
era of development in which
nations, economies, and
societies are becoming
more interdependent,

more integratedADB collaborated with development partners —_assistance—and even more collaboration with

to deliver quick recovery and reconstruction development partners—the Medium-Term
assistance to communities devastated by the Strategy Il, which will be launched soon, should
tsunami and the earthquake, and joined the improve the effectiveness of operations over
World Health Organization and the Food and the coming years. As ADB moves toward its
Agriculture Organization in the fight to stop 5 decade as the region’s development partner,
the spread of avian flu. it does so with the confidence that it is

A series of internal changes and realign- increasingly well placed to meet the emerging
ments over the year reshaped ADB to become challenges of its developing members, striving
more relevant, responsive, and results-focused to ensure that all have the opportunity to
in its operations. Under our Reform Agenda, participate in, contribute to, and benefit from
we are improving policies and strategies, sustained economic growth. With the support
seeking to manage for development results, and commitment of the staff and all our members
refining business processes, expanding and partners, it is my privilege to continue to
knowledge management, and putting in place serve ADB and to support its role in fostering
new procedures to improve human resources. peace and prosperity in Asia and the Pacific.

Better systems for planning, monitoring,
and evaluation are being designed to track
ADB performance at every level: the country level,

the institutional level, and globally as part of ADB has made a clear
a network of development institutions. Results- commitment to raise the

based country strategies and programs have been

introduced for all developing member countries. standards of its operations
And a new Public Communications Policy Q : .
promises much more transparency and in keeping with dynamic
accountability to ADB's stakeholders. . .

An array of financing instruments offered forces at work in the region
under the Innovation and
Efficiency Initiative, meanwhile, aims at giving
developing member
countries greater flexibility
in meeting their investment
needs. A sharper focus on
portfolio management and
project implementation has
produced an increase in
public sector loan disbursement, while projects at risk
decline steadily.

To manage the risks
inherent in development
work, ADB moved last year
to a centralized risk management structure through the
new Risk Management Unit.

ADB will continue to
play a major role in the fight
against poverty in the Asia
and Pacific region. ADB has
made a clear commitment
to raise the standards of its
operations in keeping with
dynamic forces at work in
the region.

Armed with its clearer
strategic priorities, critical

 

focus on results, a more Large numbers of poor people and growing inequality make clear that not all are benefiting
selective approach to from strong economic growthBoard of
Directors’
Report

(eu
[e)
(as)
(Se
<<
le)
ao

=
a
Oo
a
rn
a
MI
oa
.
im
fe
Ss

 

Improving ADB's Effectiveness

conomic growth was strong in large parts of the

region in 2005 despite the tsunami and

earthquake disasters, avian flu threat, and

higher oil prices. Many countries are no longer

merely aspiring to be part of the global
economy but have moved to its center.

Judged by purchasing power parity, Asia and the Pacific
now makes up 30% of global gross domestic product (GDP),
while the proportion of population surviving on $1 a day or
less has come down from about 34% in 1990 to 19% in 2003,
or some 620 million people.

But Asia and the Pacific is still home to fully two thirds
of the world’s poor—more than any other region. Those
living on less than $2 a day still number about 1.9 billion, or
nearly a third of the world’s population. Clearly, reducing
poverty must continue to be the guiding priority of the Asian
Development Bank (ADB) in the years ahead.

ADB remains firmly committed to helping its
developing member countries (ODMCs)—and the entire
region—achieve the Millennium Development Goals
(MDGs). Meeting all these goals by 2015 will be a
challenge and depends on the actions of the developing
countries themselves, as well as those of all development
partners. ADB will play its part to strengthen these
partnerships, and actively monitors progress.

While the region as a whole is making good progress
toward meeting the income poverty target of the first goal
(to eradicate extreme poverty and hunger), several countries
may fall short. The region is also at considerable risk of

 

failing to reach the non-income goals, with available data . Yj 1 .
ees ; . More ac#@n is needed in the region to
indicating that 27 of ADB’s DMCs are at risk of not Fee. Seamed xe eaucaiele!

achieving 25% or more of the indicators. Gender equality in tertiaryeducation
”uu
fe)
(aos
ina
=<
fe)
co

a
a
fe)
(a
i]
a
no
a
fe
wu
=
a

 

‘The greatest concerns are in the health, water supply
and sanitation, primary education, and environment
sectors. Additionally, more action is needed to achieve
gender equality in tertiary education and women’s
empowerment.

‘Throughout the region, ADB must ensure that all its
work is aimed at reducing poverty—its overriding purpose.
‘This means intervening either directly—by including
strong, pro-poor elements in all programs and projects—
or indirectly, by fostering pro-poor sustainable economic
growth in its DMCs.

In his speech at the 2005 Annual Meeting in
Istanbul, ADB President Haruhiko Kuroda called on ADB
to be more relevant, more responsive, and more focused on
results so it can meet the challenges and demands of the
borrowing members in achieving the MDGs.

The following presents some steps ADB is taking to
ensure it is more effective and efficient in carrying out its
work. Subsequent chapters of this report look at the work
ADB continued or launched in 2005 to help meet the
goals in each of its operational subregions.

Improving ADB's Effectiveness

PORTFOLIO PERFORMANCE AND RESULTS
The Annual Report on Loan and Technical Assistance Portfolio
Performance for 2004 from the Operations Evaluation
Department was well received by the ADB Board, which
found that the report provided hard evidence and numbers
to identify several important strategic challenges.

These findings were generally consistent with those

Proportion of Successful Projects/Programs

100
90
80
70
60
50
40
30
20

Success Rate (%)

ADB President Haruhiko Kuroda
called on ADB to be more relevant,
more responsive, and more focused
on results

of other efforts, including the consultation missions for the
partnership framework for middle-income ordinary capital
resources (OCR) countries, and the independent assessment of the effectiveness of the reorganization of ADB
and the Innovation and Efficiency Initiative (see page 11).

Among the findings, the analyses indicated that
when the increased lending of 1997-1998 in response to
the Asian financial crisis was factored out, the annual
OCR and Asian Development Fund (ADF) loan approvals
had stagnated at about $5.2 billion a year in the past
decade, and OCR disbursements had declined steadily.
Income from OCR lending fell by 43% from 2001 to
2004, resulting in a 38% drop in ADB’s gross annual
income.

Some 86% of loan projects in the past 10 years
experienced delays that required at least one extension
of the loan closing date; 60% required extensions of more
than 1 year, with the average overall extension about
2 years.

Many borrowers struggled to meet conditions for
second and subsequent program loan releases, resulting
in a carryover of about $1.25 billion in delayed tranche
releases at the end of 2005. In addition, lending was

1970 1971 1972 1973 1974 1975 1976 1977 1978 1979 1980 1981 1982 1983 1984 1985 1986 1987 1988 1989 1990 1991 1992 1993 1994 1995 1996 1997

Year of Completion

s=e= Success Rate (%) <== Trendline

Project/program Implementation: 5-6 years
‘Completion report: 1-2 years after project/program is completed
Project/program evaluation: 3 years after completionheavily concentrated, with 8 DMCs receiving 83% of the
total, while the 23 smallest borrowers received only 9%.

‘These broad trends supported the contention that
ADB’s traditional products were no longer meeting many
of the needs of its key clients, and that new products and
less arduous procedures were needed to improve the
effectiveness of its development activities.

During 1998-2004, the total number of ongoing
technical assistance grants in ADB’s portfolio increased
by 53%, while the net amount of the technical assistance
portfolio increased by just 42%. There are indications that
the technical assistance portfolio growth has exceeded
ADB's capacity to manage it effectively. The proportion of
technical assistance activities visited by a review mission
has fallen steadily each year from a high of 66% in 1998 to
a low of 25% in 2004. And despite the significant growth
in the technical assistance portfolio, the average annual

 

number of staff days on technical assistance review
missions remained about the same during 1998-2004.
‘These issues are being addressed under ADB’s

These broad trends supported the
contention that ADB’s traditional
products were no longer meeting
many of the needs of its key clients,
and that new products and less
arduous procedures were needed
to improve the effectiveness of
ADB's development activities

Project/Program Performance Audit/Evaluation
Report Results by Sector

Total Rated
Projects/Programs Proportion (%)

Sector (No.) HS/GS/S_ PS US
Transport and

Communications 110 83 9 8
Energy 116 81 17 2
Industry 28 7S: 14 a
Multisector/Others 13 58 26 16
Social Infrastructure 127 55 40 5
Finance 80 46 45 9
Agriculture and

Natural Resources 219 41 43 16
Private Sector 10 90 10
Total 709 60 31

GS = generally successful, HS = highly successful, PS = partly successful

S = successful, US= unsuccessful

Data Source: Project/program performance audit/evaluation reports containing a
rating circulated as of 31 December 2005

Reform Agenda, through the Innovation and Efficiency
Initiative and other programs. New products, such as the
multitranche financing facility, subsovereign and
nonsovereign public sector financing facility, local currency
lending, refinancing and retrofinancing facility, and
financing syndications and risk-sharing agreements, are
being introduced, and the administration of more projects
is being delegated to ADB’s country offices to improve
oversight and reduce response times.

The report’s direct impacts are largely internal to
ADB. For the first time, the Development Effectiveness
Committee requested Management to prepare an action
plan to address the findings of an Operations Evaluation
Department report. Management formed a task force to
prepare an action plan to address the issues identified in
the report at the corporate level. The larger and more
important indirect impacts of this report will be to stimulate improvements in ADB’s performance in administering
the portfolio, and better project delivery for ADB’s DMCs.

ASSESSING PROJECT QUALITY

‘The reforms under way throughout ADB’s operations are
equally important in its Operations Evaluation Department,
where changes have started to eventually turn the 2005
Annual Evaluation Review into a review of development
results, rather than a review of evaluation activities.

In comparison with its predecessors, the 2005 review
differed in structure, content, and analytical depth. In
particular, it undertook a retrospective evaluation of ADB’s
public sector projects, which account for 84% of cumulative
lending, and its conclusions should help ADB improve
project quality and portfolio performance in the future.

In general, the analysis of 968 projects showed that
project success deteriorated during the 1970s, bottomed

Evaluation Results for Technical Assistance Operations

Total Rated TAs _— Proportion (%)

Type of Evaluation (No.) HS/GS/S PS US
Self-Evaluation

TCRs 1,352 81 16 2
Independent Evaluation

TPARs. 173 61 320° 7

Attached ADTAs’ 131 50 31 19
Total 304 56 32 12

ADTA = advisory technical assistance, GS = generally successful, HS = highly
successful, PS = partly successful, S = successful, TA = techincal assistance,
TCR = technical assistance completion report, TPAR = technical assistance
performance audit report, US = unsuccessful

* Evaluations as part of project/program performance audit reports to which they are
attached.

S
eS)
2
a
[e)
Po)
Al
Pe)
2
me)
Oo
=)
zc

=O ét:)v40}-)ms
[e)
(aos
na
=e
ie)
ao

a
a
[e}
(xe
i]
a
no
a
5
wu
=
a

 

In general, the analysis of

968 projects showed that project
success deteriorated during the
1970s, bottomed out in the early
1980s, and improved from 1987
onward

out in the early 1980s, and improved from 1987 onward
(see graph, page 6). The evidence also suggests that
efforts in the early 1990s to improve project quality
through the project management structure, quality at
entry, and portfolio management and project
administration met with some success, although these
efforts need to be continued.

‘The report highlighted some key factors necessary for
ADB to become a results-based organization, such as
improving selectivity and focus, taking into account past
results of projects; raising the performance of countries with
poor records; and strengthening the economic forecasts
underlying project plans—since most infrastructure
projects require that planners take a decades-long view.

Measures to prevent project approvals bunching up at
the end of the calendar year were also suggested, among
them, giving staffa clear message that achieving development results is more important than the calendar year in
which a loan is approved. ADB Management responded in
August, saying that ADB’s ongoing and future operations will
support the implementation of major recommendations.
The report also noted that ADB had made considerable
efforts to mainstream the Managing for Development
Results agenda across all operations, particularly through
its results-based country strategies and programs and the
Project Performance Management Systems.

Another innovation in the 2005 report featured a
chapter drawing together some of the broader findings of
ADB’s operations in one sector.

In 2005, the Operations Evaluation Department also
published several separate sectoral evaluations (such as the
social sector in Pakistan and the power sector in the Philippines). In addition, evaluations were completed on ADB’s
country assistance programs for Bhutan and Indonesia.

IMPROVING COUNTRY STRATEGIES
‘These evaluation findings are also being used to help ADB
improve its country strategies.

Among the specific findings, the analysis showed that
the project sector was an important determinant of project

   

Overall, energy is one of ADB's best-performing sectors

performance (see table, page 7). For transport and energy
projects approved in the 1990s, the probability ofa
successful rating was over 85%. There was a lower
probability of success, at 46%, for projects in the
agriculture sector and for lines of credit to governmentowned development finance institutions. The problems
in the agriculture sector were widespread, although
performance was relatively better for irrigation and rural
development projects.

Performance also varied, naturally enough, by country,
although it improved for all country groupings in the
1990s. More than two thirds of ADB-funded projects were
successful in Bhutan, Central Asian republics, People’s
Republic of China (PRC), Greater Mekong Subregion
(GMS), Maldives, and Mongolia.

‘The project success rate was below 50% in the Pacific
islands, heavily influenced by weak performance in Papua
New Guinea, and in the Philippines.

ADB policies were applied uniformly to all countries,
despite clear differences in portfolio performance and
borrower requirements. ADB has recognized that it will be
more efficient, will reduce transaction costs, and likely
improve results to delegate more authority and
accountability to strong DMCs; work on this continues in
the middle-income country strategy and through the
Innovation and Efficiency Initiative. Efforts will also be
required to assist small, vulnerable, and/or weakly
performing DMCs whose primary needs may not be for
loan-funded projects or programs.

In reviewing these reports, the DevelopmentOf the 94 evaluated power projects,
76 were rated as successful or better

Effectiveness Committee recommended further work to
improve sector selectivity and focus on country strategies,
strengthen core technical skills, increase delegation to the
resident missions, and strengthen loan and technical
assistance project implementation. The committee noted
that, while past performance in a sector is an important
factor, other considerations also need to be taken into
account, including the borrowers’ requirements and the
potential impact on poverty reduction.

SPOTLIGHT ON THE ENERGY SECTOR

‘The Operations Evaluation Department chose to put the
energy sector under the spotlight in its 2005 report,
because it accounts for 19.7% of cumulative lending and
is going through structural changes in many countries.

Overall, energy is one of ADB’s best-performing
sectors. Although delays in implementation are the norm,
of the 94 evaluated power projects, 76 were rated as
successful or better, 16 as partly successful, and only
2 as unsuccessful.

ADB assistance has contributed to economic
development by increasing access to electricity and making
the energy sector more efficient. ADB should continue to
support power sector reform, sound regulation, tariff reform
and cost recovery; development ofan enabling environment
for private sector investment; and finance for both public
and private sector investments in infrastructure.

 

New and Revised Policies
and Procedures

REFORMING TO REMAIN RELEVANT

‘The year 2005 was very much a year of transition for ADB:
anew president in February, the final year of the current
medium-term strategy, and many changes implemented
through its Reform Agenda.

‘To remain responsive and relevant in the complex
and fast-changing environment and to help ensure that
economic growth lifts as many lives as possible, ADB has
been reforming its processes, policies, and programs. Many
changes are being put in place under the plan known as
the Reform Agenda, adopted in 2004, which is making
ADB more effective in delivering country-level
sand its goal of poverty reduction.

s of 19 ADB-wide reform initiatives

development outcom
‘The agenda consis
to deliver five broad outcomes related to internal changes

 
 

and realignment: improving operational policies, strategies,
and approaches; mainstreaming Managing for Development
Results; refining organizational process and structure;
reinforcing knowledge management; and improving
human resources management and staff incentives.

Major milestones were reached on many of the
Reform Agenda’s 19 initiatives in 2005, including
adoption of three change proposals under the Innovation
and Efficiency Initiative on new financing instruments
and modalities, local currency loan product, and cost
sharing and expenditure eligibility; adoption of a revised
design and monitoring framework for the project
performance management systems; establishment of
an independent Risk Management Unit and the Office
of Regional Economic Integration; adoption of anew
Public Communications Policy; and adoption of a new
performance management system under the human
resources strategy.

Running like a thread through the organization, ADB
is deepening its application of results-based systems for

S
eS)
2
a
[e}
2)
CA
2)
2
me)
1e}
Pe)
zc

 

planning, monitoring, reporting, and evaluating its actions
to better manage for development results.

MANAGING FOR DEVELOPMENT RESULTS
Managing for Development Results at ADB is focused on
improved learning and decision making at the DMC level,
within its own institutional framework, and globally as
part of an emerging network of Managing for
Development Results institutions and practitioners.
During 2005, for example, ADB produced the first
results-based annual report on its poverty reduction
strategy. The report assesses progress in advancing the

   

£ [.
a Ce We
ADB must make sure all its programs and projects contain pro-poor
elementsstrategy, and introduces a results-based monitoring and
evaluation framework with clear indicators.

‘The ADB Board of Directors also endorsed resultsbased country strategies and programs in Bangladesh,
Bhutan, Mongolia, and Philippines, the first batch to join
the 2004 debut of Nepal’s pilot results-based country
strategy and program. The country strategies and programs
for Fiji Islands, Indonesia, Papua New Guinea, Uzbekistan,
and Viet Nam are being developed to include tools to
enable those programs to be managed for development
results. All are being put together after extensive
consultations with a broad spectrum of stakeholders in
those countries, making the strategies and programs more
inclusive and reflective than ever before of the needs of
the poor.

RESULTS IN COUNTRY STRATEGIES

AND PROGRAMS

Results-based country strategies and programs put in place
a matrix of objectives and clear indicators for monitoring
progress, and provide the flexibility to zero in on the
developmental constraints of the member country. For
example, the Philippine country strategy and program
focuses on the fiscal deficit, the Bangladesh and Nepal
country strategies and programs deal closely with
governance, and regional imbalances are important in the
Viet Nam country strategy and program.

Some countries have more capacity to adopt results
orientation than others—such as large, middle-income
economies—more so than smaller, fragile states. As a key
action under Managing for Development Results, ADB
will work with its DMCs to help develop their capacity
and strengthen country systems for the strategy.

Regionally, the new Pacific Regional Economic

10

   

‘ ae i . a

Women in Bangladesh learn the basics of microfinance, a key step
to improving their lives (left); ADB must clearly and consistently
demonstrate effectiveness in its operations (above)

Results-based country strategies
and programs provide the
flexibility to zero in on the
developmental constraints of
the member country

Cooperation Strategy and Program (Pacific Strategy) is also
designed to be managed for results and was put together
after consultations and extensive workshops with
stakeholders concerned.

The Pacific Strategy is a unique document in ADB.
It will guide the preparation of all country strategies and
programs in the region and all regional activities. Through
a matrix of three objectives and seven key result areas, the
strategy is based on monitoring, reporting, and assessing
work across the region, and, importantly, learning from
this process for future decision making.

PROJECT PERFORMANCE MANAGEMENT SYSTEMS
Inadequate planning and insufficient involvement of
stakeholders in project preparation are among the main
reasons for project failure. The results-based approach is
also working at the project level, under the Project
Performance Management Systems, which centers around
the development of improved design and monitoring
frameworks for ADB projects, programs, and technical
assistance.

‘The new frameworks are results-based participatoryinstruments that help in conceptualizing, designing,
implementing, monitoring, and evaluating projects.

‘The improved use of better frameworks is expected to
provide a consistent structure for all lending and non-lending
operations; clarify outcomes by harmonizing better with
other aid agencies; describe the “results chain” of a project;
and improve the formulation of expected development
outcomes by identifying performance indicators.

GLOBAL AGENDA

ADB has also played a key role in discussions among the
multilateral development banks to mainstream Managing
for Development Results. For example, it initiated joint
development of the multilateral development banks’
Common Performance Assessment System, which will
collectively assess each year how five banks are progressing
in mainstreaming the Managing for Development Results
agenda.

Indeed, at the Second High-Level Forum on Aid
Effectiveness in March 2005, delegates from more than
100 developed and developing countries and major
international agencies endorsed the Paris Declaration on
Aid Effectiveness. They resolved to take far-reaching and
monitorable actions to reform the ways aid is managed.

ADB and other multilateral development banks also
committed to harmonizing operational policies,
procedures, and approaches to reduce transaction costs for
donors and developing countries. ADB collaborates with
partners on key economic, sector, and thematic works and
increasingly uses harmonized approaches in developing
results-based country strategies and programs.

INNOVATION AND EFFICIENCY INITIATIVE
ADB provides both finance and expertise to its clients
Finance includes debt, equity, and guarantees. Expertise
covers sector and thematic areas and is channeled mainly
via technical assistance grants. Besides its proximity to the
market and sector/thematic knowledge, ADB also maintains
a close working relationship with countries in the region.
‘To package these assets for greater development
effectiveness, ADB is streamlining some of its business
processes and developing new financing instruments and
modalities. The Innovation and Efficiency Initiative has
been established for this purpose. It aims to make ADB
more client- and results-oriented, and efficient. The
initiative covers seven change areas: new financial
instruments, including local currency; better country
strategies; simplified business processes; improved
simplified consulting services;
enhanced cost-sharing and expenditure eligibility criteria;

  

procurement polici

and improved safeguard policies.

The Innovation and Efficiency
Initiative aims to make ADB more
client- and results-oriented,

and efficient

S
eS)
2
a
[e}
2)
CA
Pe)
2
me)
1e}
Pe)
zc

NEW INSTRUMENTS AND MODALITIES

ADB is testing five new financing instruments and
modalities to meet client needs ina more efficient and
cost-effective manner. The new instruments will be
implemented on a pilot basis for an initial period of 3 years,
after which performance, suitability, and outcome will be
evaluated. If found to be sound, relevant, and effective,
they will be mainstreamed into ADB’s operational toolkit.

‘The new financing instruments are meant to be
client-driven and easy to use. They follow ADB’s strategic
framework, comply with ADB’s Charter, and are aligned
with existing policies and procedures.

‘They are also designed to preserve the institution’s
triple A credit rating. An independent Risk Management
Unit was created in 2005 as a precondition for the pilot
instruments, and to evaluate nonrecourse financing or

 

nonsovereign finance transactions. This unit will cover

public and private sector operations processed by regional

departments, by the Private Sector Operations

Department, or by joint teams.
‘The financing instruments include the following.

¢ A multitranche financing facility, similar to
a standby and noncontingent line of credit,
relevant for both debt equity and guarantee
finance. The facility targets mainly investment
programs, large projects, and credit lines. Pilot
testing began in 2005 with two transactions,
one in India and another in Pakistan.

¢ Direct financing to subsovereign, quasisovereign, and state-owned enterprises. This
new instrument responds to the decentralization
process taking place in the region and allows ADB
to service a new set of clients.

¢ Local currency financing. This is now
applicable to both public and private transactions.
It addresses the potential mismatch between
borrowing in foreign currency and having income
streams in local currency. This is especially relevant
in the case of public services, utilities, and
infrastructure projects.

¢ — Refinancing facility. This allows ADB to help
with the restructuring and/or expansion of existing
projects with inappropriate financing plans.

11Ee
fe)
law
w
a
yn
(a

 

 

New country strategies and programs are being put together after
extensive consultations, making them more inclusive and pro-poor

¢ New forms of cofinancing. ADB has seen
increased interest from commercial financial
institutions in both the private and public sectors
to enter into risk-sharing agreements—cofinancing
through active financial syndications and risk
sharing with commercial financing partners. The
new arrangements will expand cofinancing and
partnership opportunities for all parties involved.

OTHER POLICIES AND STRATEGIES

ADB has been reviewing and improving its policies,
strategies, and approaches to ensure that they are focused
on results and are relevant. In 2005, ADB reviewed its
existing Private Sector Development Strategy and started
preparing a new strategy for regional cooperation and
integration. Following the review of its Private Sector
Development Strategy, ADB prepared and submitted to
the Board of Directors a new strategic framework. This
focuses on enabling environment intervention to create a
level playing field for instruments, mobilization of
finance for private sector development, and new ways of
financing public goods and services. The framework is
accompanied by an action plan.

Setting the tone for policy review, meanwhile, the
Public Communications Policy was approved. After
extensive and transparent consultations with interested
groups around the world, working drafts were posted on
the internet, and extensive comments were publicized
on the ADB intranet. ADB closely considered all
contributions in the final product, which is now setting
a progressive tone for the organization’s dissemination of
knowledge and information (see page 13).

Similar wide-ranging consultations were held as part
of the review of the implementation of ADB’s governance
and anticorruption policies. ADB circulated the review

12

ADB has been reviewing and
improving its policies, strategies,
and approaches to ensure that
they are focused on results and
are relevant

conclusions in the draft paper Improving Governance and
Fighting Corruption: Implementing the Governance and
Anticorruption Policies, which was made publicly
available for comment in December 2005.

‘The review finds that ADB has succeeded in raising
the profile of governance in the region and significantly
increased assistance between 2000 and 2004. However,
the review concludes that there is a long way to go toward
embedding implementation of the governance and
anticorruption policies in the mainstream of ADB
operations. The sheer scope of the governance policy and
its action plan has resulted in too many small projects of
short duration and thinly spread staff resources.

The review also concludes that ADB has achieved
some success in dealing with fraud and corruption in
procurement and in increasing awareness of the
Anticorruption Policy. But less progress has been made
in assessing the impact of corruption on a country's
ability to meet its development goals.

‘The review also finds that service delivery in many
DMGs is plagued by inefficiency and corruption, for
example, in health, education, water, licensing, revenue,
and land titles. It says that higher priority should be
given to supporting investments in local transparency,
participation, and complaint mechanisms; and strong
preventive measures against corruption must be built into
project design and followed up with effective oversight
and corruption risk mitigation management during
implementation.

ADBalso continued implementation of its
Performance-Based Allocation Policy, which governs the
allocation of grants and loans to borrowers from the ADF
(see below).

And the year included work to prepare ADB’s second
Medium-Term Strategy, which will introduce some
strategic measures as the first steps to a more
comprehensive longer-term ADB response to the rapid and
far-reaching changes in the region is experiencing. The
document will be made available in 2006 (www.adb.org/
Documents/Policies/MTS/2006/). A review of ADB’s
Long-term Strategic Framework is also to progress,
beginning in 2006.Public Communications Policy: Making Information Available

DB’s new Public Communications Policy heralds
an ambitious shift
toward sharing knowledge. ADB commits to a refined and
more focused approach to external
relations, with clear positions on
issues of importance, better
information products to explain
them, and wider distribution. The
policy's new rules regarding the
disclosure of information about its
operations put ADB ahead of other
international finance institutions.

The policy forthrightly supports
the right of people to seek, receive,
and impart information and ideas
about ADB's activities. Among its
unique features, it will proactively
make information publicly available
by posting it on the web, and not
only after a request. People should
be able to find the information they
want, rather than having ADB
presuppose what they need.

If the information ADB holds is
not subject to clear confidentiality
criteria, it must be publicly disclosed.
The policy even favors disclosure of
sensitive information if the public's
interest in receiving the information
outweighs the harm that may be
caused to ADB. By leapfrogging
other international development
organizations, the new policy puts
ADB apace with a global movement
toward greater transparency and
disclosure. The organization believes
that greater awareness and understanding of its objectives will help
generate public trust.

Disclosure Enables

Participation

Overall, the more transparent
approach under the policy ensures
that much more information will be
available to the public in the early
stages of policies, country strategies,
or projects—before decisions are
made and members of the public
can no longer influence the
development initiatives that affect
them. By sharing information,
people can better participate in
decision making.

ADB also recognizes that those
who need information do not
necessarily have access to the internet.
Early in the design of projects that
affect local residents, information
will be made available to the people
likely to be affected, and ADB will
work closely with the borrower or
project sponsor to ensure information is provided and feedback
sought. A focal point will also be
designated for regular contact.

Organizations such as nationallevel civil society groups increasingly
want to be involved in their country's
development strategy. ADB enables
this involvement by requiring that draft
country strategies and programs be
disclosed to in-country stakeholders.

ADB regularly consults a wide
range of groups before adopting or
revising new operational policies and
strategies, and now requires draft
policy and strategy papers to be
posted routinely on its website.

Disclosure Enables Accountability
From the beginning of open and
broad-based consultations with
a huge spectrum of interests in
preparing the policy—a process one
major nongovernment organization
(NGO) called the best policy review
to date among multilateral development banks—ADB has signaled a
new direction under this policy. As a
public finance institution, it wants to
be held publicly accountable.
ADB-supported development
activities are paid for by citizens of its
member countries, so the organization recognizes that it needs to be
transparent with the public. ADB
reviewed all the documentation it
regularly produces and asked the
question: What is the harm in
releasing this document? This puts

the onus on ADB staff to defend
why information cannot be released.

The policy also favors “redaction”
rather than withholding of information; that is, ADB will remove the
confidential part of a document in
order for the bulk of it to be
released. And ADB will not withhold
information simply because it is
negative. It will report failures and
disappointments, as well as successes.

ADB now has strict time limits for
responding to requests for information, and regularly monitors the
policy to ensure that it operates in
accordance with its principles and
rules. Reports on the policy's
implementation will be produced
and disclosed annually.

ADB will not withhold
information simply
because it is negative

 

The policy supports the rights of people
to seek, receive, and impart information
and ideas about ADB’s activities

Disclosure of sensitive information is favored
if the public's interest in receiving the
information outweighs the harm that may

be caused to ADB

SZ!
a
q
[e)
Eo
ca)
a
faa}
vu
2)
Es
ay

4dO aduvogms
[e)
(aos
na
=e
ie)
ao

a
(oe
[e}
(xe
i]
a
no
a
:
wu
=
a

 

PERFORMANCE-BASED ALLOCATION POLICY
ADB’s Performance-Based Allocation Policy governs the
allocation of resources under the ADF, which provides
loans and grants to poorer countries on highly concessional
terms. The policy and its implementation was a central
theme of ADF IX negotiations. ADB began
implementation of its revised Performance-Based
Allocation Policy after Board approval in December 2004.

In 2005, ADB took a number of steps to strengthen
implementation and increase transparency of the policy,
and to further harmonize performance-based operations
with those of development partners.

A focal point was established in ADB’s Strategy and
Policy Department. The First Multilateral Development
Banks’ Technical Meeting on Performance-Based
Allocation, jointly planned by the African Development
Bank, ADB, and the International Development
Association of the World Bank Group, was hosted in
Manila in January 2005.

In April, ADB organized regional technical workshops
in Suva, Fiji Islands, and in Bangkok, Thailand, to explain
the objectives of the new policy to officials from DMCs
and civil society organizations.

In line with the revised policy, the World Bank’s
Country Policy and Institutional Assessment
questionnaire was adopted to conduct the 2005 country
performance assessments, and the two organizations
coordinated to ensure consistency in the conduct of
assessments exercises.

The first country performance assessments under the
revised policy were carried out in 2005 to determine ADF
allocations for 2007-2008. The assessments covered five
areas: macroeconomic management, structural policies,
social inclusion/equity, governance, and portfolio
management.

Recently, ADB reached an important milestone in
implementing the revised Performance-Based Allocation
Policy, with numerical ratings being released for the first
time in the public domain.

Internal Initiatives

HUMAN RESOURCES
Human Resources Strategy
‘The Human Resources Strategy, approved in 2004, is a
critical component of ADB’s Reform Agenda. ADB made
significant progress implementing several initiatives
under the strategy in 2005. The initiatives, by improving
management of human resources, help ADB work toward
achieving results.

‘The ADB-wide competency framework was

14

implemented through the new performance management
system and learning and development programs.
Subsequent implementation of the ADB-wide competency
framework will continue in 2006 through enhancements to
the recruitment, selection, and promotion systems.

Among the initiatives, the new performance
management system clearly defines individual staff
responsibilities and accountabilities in annual work plans
agreed between staff and managers. The Performance and
Development Plan provides better alignment between an
individual staff member's work plan and the organization’s
key results. It is a framework that provides the needed
structure to manage performance on a daily basis through
timely, continuous, and constructive feedback as well as
more objective performance distinctions and recognition.
‘The Performance and Development Plan will allow ADB
to efficiently manage staff development and personnel
decisions. Improvements will continue to be made to the
performance management system during the 2006 cycle.

Recruitment and selection initiatives were improved
through the delegation of some oversight functions to the
Vice President (Finance and Administration) and through
the use of external specialized recruitment firms for senior
positions in the Private Sector Operations Department
and the new Risk Management Unit. Panel interviews for
professional staff and greater participation of the hiring
divisions were sought to screen and interview external
candidates.

‘To facilitate implementation of the strategy, ADB
was required to first attain the flexibility to adjust the
composition of its workforce to ensure that staff possess
the appropriate competencies, motivation, and potential
to perform. Implementation of the Enhanced Separation
Program started in 2005 and will be completed in 2006.
‘The program encourages selected staff members who
have reached a plateau in their careers to take the
opportunity to separate from ADB earlier than their
normal retirement date.

New Unit Formed to Focus on Learning

The Learning and Development Unit was established in
2005 to optimize the use of learning and development
resources, support a more efficient approach to learning
and development, and adopt a more strategic approach
toward identifying learning needs within the business

The Human Resources Strategy
is a critical component of ADB's
Reform Agendaenvironment. The focus is primarily on promoting
institutional efficiency and effectiveness, redesigning
leadership programs, and improving technical programs.
‘To determine ADB’s learning needs, an ADB-wide
training needs assessment was implemented as part of the
new performance management system. Several new
workshops were introduced in 2005, and broad training
programs on technical and operations skills development
as well as leadership coaching to strengthen leadership
and accountability were conducted. A job rotation pilot
was implemented for resident mission national officers.

Initiatives that continue to support the objective of
creating an inclusive and women-friendly environment
were implemented, including diversity and gender
sensitivity sessions.

Staffing

At the end of 2005, ADB had a staff of 2,456 coming from
53 of its 64 member countries. The total comprised

887 professional staff members and 1,569 local staff
members, of whom 342 or about 17.2% are located in
field offices. During the year, there were 95 appointments
and 68 departures of professional staff members, while
137 local staff joined ADB, and 102 left. Women
professional staff members increased in number but
decreased as a percentage of total professional staff.
Women professional staff members totaled 255 (29.8% of
total professional staff) at the end of 2004 and 259
(29.3% of total professional staff) at the end of 2005.

COMPENSATION

Consistent with ADB’s market-driven compensation
system, the Board approved a 3.4% weighted average
salary increase for professional staff and a 0.9% salary
budget for nonrecurring, non-pensionable bonus for 2006.
It also approved a weighted average salary increase of
10.9% for national officers and administrative staff at
headquarters for 2006, while an overall weighted average
salary increase of 10.8% for the national officers and
administrative staff in 25 field offices was implemented
for 2006.

‘The Board discussed the Comprehensive Review of
Compensation and Benefits for professional staff in
November 2005. It approved a change in the methodology
for setting professional staff salaries. The European Bank
for Reconstruction and Development has been added as a
comparator, in addition to the World Bank. The salary
budget increase has been split into two components: a
salary increase to be distributed based on performance;
and a nonrecurring, non-pensionable bonus to be given to
staff rated exceptional under the Performance and

The new performance development plan provides better alignment
between staff work plans and ADB’s key results

 

At the end of 2005, ADB had
a staff of 2,456 coming from 53 of
its 64 member countries

Development Plan. Some benefit changes that were
discussed with the Board and approved by Management
included changes to the Staff Retirement Plan and the
Group Medical Insurance Plan for pensioners, as well as
minor changes to the expatriate benefits on housing,
home country travel, and education assistance.

INTERNAL ADMINISTRATIVE EXPENSE BUDGET
Internal administrative expenses for 2005 totaled
$294.3 million, a saving of $5.5 million against the
original budget of $299.8 million, resulting mainly from
lower-than-expected staff costs, business travel, and
administrative expenses, despite emergency assistance to
the earthquake- and tsunami-affected areas. Savings were
offset by a higher requirement for consultants and staff
relocation. About $0.7 million was transferred from the
general contingency to meet the unexpected increase in
staff-related expenses of the Operations Evaluation
Department and higher relocation expenses of the offices
of the directors.

For 2006, the internal administrative expense budget
is $312.9 million, including a general contingency of 1%
(summarized in Appendix 10), and net of $3.8 million

15

   

S
eS)
2
a
[e}
2)
Al
Pe)
2
me)
1e}
Pe)
zcms
[e)
(aos
na
=e
ie)
ao

a
a
[e}
(xe
i]
a
no
a
:
wu
=
a

 

estimated to be recoverable from administering trust
funds of multilateral and bilateral institutions. The 2006
budget has been prepared under a zero real growth
scenario, with no professional staff increases. The nominal
budget increase over the 2005 budget estimate is 5.3%,
which is fully attributable to price increases. To achieve
this flat real growth budget and to ensure that resources
are available to fund priority work programs for 2006,

an across-the-board sequestration of 5% of the authorized
professional staff complement and selected discretionary
expenses was applied.

Budgetary resources in 2006 will fund a prioritized
work program, including the following major initiatives:
expansion of OCR lending to meet the priority needs of
DMCs, including lending to subsovereign and nonsovereign
entities; expanded private sector operations to reach
unserved DMCs; enhanced portfolio management with
increased delegation of project implementation and other
functions to resident missions; strengthened credit risk
assessment and management; enhanced regional and
subregional cooperation and integration; Managing for
Development Results and the Human Resources Strategy
under the Reform Agenda; the Committee of Sponsoring
Organizations of the Treadway Commission framework;
knowledge management action plan; and implementation
of the Public Communications Policy. Increases in
budgetary resources to support these initiatives are to be
met through sequestration of resources, trade-offs,
productivity gains, and various efficiency measures.

In addition to internal administrative expenses,
the 2006 budget also includes an annual capital budget of
$4.1 million, mainly to fund cyclical capital expenditures
for headquarters facilities and information technology
equipment, and to meet replacement and acquisition
requirements of field offices.

ADMINISTRATIVE SERVICES
‘The Office of Administrative Services worked to maintain
a safer and better work environment through several major

The 2006 budget has been
prepared under a zero real growth
scenario, with no professional staff
increases. The nominal budget
increase over the 2005 budget
estimate is 5.3%, which is fully
attributable to price increases

16

initiatives in 2005. Under the Enhanced Security
Access Control Project—one of the projects under the
Special Capital Budget Projects, which was approved in
April 2004 by the Board of Directors—all six entrances
to the headquarters building were improved and the
Security Operations Center that operates 24/7 to provide
timely information was established. It also led to the
development of the ADB Business Continuity Strategy,
approved in February 2005. The strategy, which aims to
mitigate the probability of a risk occurrence and reduce
the impact of a risk event, focuses on the timely response
toa disruption affecting ADB’s business processes.

In November 2005, ADB passed its second year
surveillance and maintained its ISO 14001 and OHSAS
18001 certification, confirming that ADB’s environment,
health, and safety management systems comply with
international standards.

The office also launched and managed ADB’s i-travel
self-booking tool to enable personnel to make online
travel reservations anytime they require. Last year’s
projects also included the improvement of procurement
procedures and outsourcing opportunities, and the latest
printing technology upgrade.

All these bank-wide initiatives were anchored on the
Balanced Scorecard and Six Sigma, which are now being
used in the office as tools to measure quality for business
process management improvement.

INFORMATION SYSTEMS AND TECHNOLOGY

‘The Office of Information Systems and Technology
provides access to knowledge and information as required,
in support of ADB goals in three major areas: information
systems, technology infrastructure, and information
technology governance.

Under information technology governance, the office
recently completed a realignment, putting in place four
business units: Technology Division, Solution Delivery
Division, Infrastructure Unit, and Business Process
Support Unit.

As part of the Information Systems and Technology
Strategy Phase II, several initiatives have started to
increase efficiency in information and technology areas.
Foremost is the infrastructure optimization initiative to
simplify and consolidate existing technology. This is
expected to streamline ADB’s information and technology
environment toward the desired enterprise architecture
laid out against the defined business direction and to
ensure greater cost-effectiveness.

In the area of information systems, the office is working
closely with the Knowledge Management Center and the
Regional and Sustainable Development Department toidentify requirements for better information sharing in
support of decision making and knowledge management.

Governing Structure

BOARD OF GOVERNORS AND

BOARD OF DIRECTORS

ADB's highest policy-making body is its Board of Governors,
which is composed of one representative from each ADB
member. The Governors meet annually and elect the

12 members of the Board of Directors, who serve 2-year

38* Annual Meeting

terms. Each Director appoints an Alternate. The President
is elected by the Board of Governors for a 5-year term and
serves as Chairperson of the Board of Directors. The
President manages ADB, assisted by four Vice Presidents
and a Managing Director General. (For the current list of
Governors and Directors, see appendixes 4 and 5.)
Haruhiko Kuroda assumed office as ADB President on
1 February 2005 after being unanimously elected by the
Board of Governors in November 2004.
Vice President Joseph Eichenberger completed
his assignment on 31 December 2005. C. Lawrence

he 38" annual meeting of Economic Integration; the region; and

the Board of Governors was * shared ADB’s concern with the * commended ADB on the

held in Istanbul, Turkey, negative net transfer of resources introduction of grants in ADF IX,

from 4 to 6 May 2005, with to DMCs, and welcomed ADB's and noted that the use of ADF IX
activities and events commencing on plan to streamline policies and grant resources must be
2 May 2005. procedures, develop new lending consistent with ADB's overall

ADB's Board of Governors instruments, sharpen the focus of commitment to development

recognized that developing Asia had its operations, and ensure cost effectiveness.
entered a new era of development competitiveness, within a well- About 2,500 participants
characterized by dynamic growth, defined medium-term strategic attended the annual meeting,
increased interdependence, and an framework; including representatives from
unprecedented prominence in the * urged ADB to work with govern- multilateral and bilateral institutions,
global economy. The Governors also ments, development partners, the global financial community, and
recognized that the generally and the private sector to meet the _civil society. The 39" annual meeting
buoyant economic profile was not large infrastructure challenges in will be held in Hyderabad, India.

uniform, that significant disparities
in economic and social development
persist within countries and across
the region, and that reducing nonincome poverty has been slow

in many countries.

The Governors expressed firm
commitment to reducing poverty
and achieving the MDGs in the Asia
and Pacific region, and reaffirmed
their vision of a region free of
poverty.

The Governors also
* expressed their strong apprecia
tion to ADB for its leadership role

and quick response in addressing
the aftermath of the tsunami in

late 2004:
¢ reaffirmed the importance of

Managing for Development

Results;

About 2,500 participants attended the annual meeting, including representatives from
multilateral and bilateral institutions, the global financial community, and civil society

   

* noted ADB's strong commitment The Governors expressed firm commitment

to a more proactive role in

regional cooperation and to reducing poverty and achieving the MDGs

integration, and welcomed the

creation of the Office of Regional for a poverty-free Asia and Pacific region

17

SZ!
wa
a
[e)
za
ca)
Ph
faa}
me
2)
za
=

4dO aduvogms
[e)
(aos
na
=e
ie)
ao

a
(oe
[e}
(xe
i]
a
no
a
:
wu
=
a

 

Greenwood, Jr. was elected by the Governors to replace
Mr. Eichenberger. Mr. Greenwood assumed office on
28 February 2006.

‘The Board of Directors met formally on 49 occasions
and held 38 informal meetings in 2005 including
briefings, discussion seminars, and presentations.
Members of the Board of Directors made official visits to
India, Maldives, and three Central Asian republics.

‘The Annual Meeting was held on 4-6 May 2005 in
Istanbul, Turkey (see page 17).

BOARD COMMITTEES

‘The Board of Directors has four standing committees.
Membership is shown in Appendix 6.

Audit Committee

‘The Audit Committee identified and reviewed a
comprehensive range of audit issues within its mandate,
representing a broad cross-section of ADB operations and
activities, including the quarterly financial statements,
which are analyzed closely to review the financial
soundness of ADB, and to keep track of the net income
position. It continued to monitor implementation of the
Financial Accounting Standard, FAS 133, covering
accounting principles and practices in relation to
derivative instruments; the effectiveness and efficiency of
control procedures, including backup procedures as part of
the Business Continuity Plan; and measures being taken
to prevent fraud and corruption.

‘The committee, together with relevant ADB
departments, finalized a review of its terms of reference,
bringing them in line with those of other multilateral
development banks. The role of the committee was made
more specific with the inclusion of risk management, and
procurement policies and procedures as part of the review
of internal controls. The committee supported the
initiative of the President at the Istanbul Annual Meeting
of establishing an independent Risk Management Unit.

Budget Review Committee
‘The Budget Review Committee discussed the Enhanced
Separation Program, later approved by the Board. It clarified
how the program will provide flexibility to adjust human
resources in line with the Human Resources Strategy.
‘The committee also discussed and amended its
terms of reference to reflect the participation of Vice
Presidents in committee meetings as necessary, allowing
the discussion of strategic directions before the
finalization of the work program and budget framework.
‘The committee also looked at efforts and progress to
improve cost information. It noted that the work program

18

and budget framework should be viewed as an ADB
business plan to enhance effectiveness, with inclusion of a
stronger results framework.

‘The committee reviewed the special capital
expenditure proposal on a business continuity facility,
later approved by the Board, to serve as a backup work
facility during business interruptions at headquarters.

It also recommended approval of ADB’s 2006 budgets
for internal administrative expenses and annual capital
expenditures. The guiding principle of the budget
formulation was zero real growth.

During the deliberations on the 2006 budgets, the
committee requested a review of the overall lending
program projections in the draft budget document, and
these were subsequently revised upward. In response,
the committee was provided with an update of the
projected programs on regular operations, ADF grants,
multitranche financing facility, and emergency
assistance. The committee expressed concern about the
impact of a zero real growth budget on the scaling up of
operations, implementation of new initiatives, and the
medium-term strategy. The committee was informed
that this would not restrict work program objectives
and targets, which are fully resourced.

‘The committee reviewed the work program of the
ADB Institute, proposed a 2006 budget of $14.2 million,
and recommended its approval.

Compliance Review Committee

‘The Compliance Review Committee, set up under the
Accountability Mechanism (see page 19), clears the
Compliance Review Panel’s proposed terms of reference and
time frame for conducting compliance reviews, and reviews
the panel’s draft monitoring reports on implementation of
remedial actions approved by the Board before the panel
finalizes them. In 2005, the committee discussed the
panel’s proposed terms of reference for conducting a
compliance review of the request under the Southern
‘Transport Development Project in Sri Lanka and three draft
monitoring reports on the implementation of remedial
actions on the inspection request on the Chashma Right
Bank Irrigation Project (Stage III). The terms of reference
and monitoring reports are posted on the panel’s website
(www.compliance.adb.org).

Development Effectiveness Committee

‘To ensure the independence of ADB’s operations
evaluation process and reports, on 1 January 2004,

the Operations Evaluation Department began reporting
directly to the Board of Directors through its
Development Effectiveness Committee.Evolving areas of concern to the committee include
how evaluation recommendations that Management
accepts are turned into action, with an eye to making
improvements. They also include how impact is monitored,
and how the department could play a more strategic role.

All evaluation reports are posted on ADB’s website
upon circulation to the Board and Management, in
accordance with the Public Communications Policy.
Management’s responses to the reports and
recommendations, and the chair’s summaries of
committee discussions of the department’s major reports

‘The committee has changed the focus of its reviews
and discussions from individual project evaluations to
broader evaluations at the country, sector, thematic,
and policy levels. Accordingly, in 2005, the committee
meeting agenda included only such broader studies,
none at the project level. For the first time, the
committee recommended that Management formulate
a comprehensive action plan to address key strategic
issues identified in the annual report on portfolio
performance. Management responded positively to the
recommendation and committed to monitoring and

are also posted when available.

reporting to the Board on such an action plan.

Accountability Mechanism

DB’s Accountability
Mechanism aims to
improve development
effectiveness, project
quality, and transparency in operations. Its two functions—consultation and compliance review—help
solve problems and investigate
alleged violations of ADB's operational policies and procedures.
Through the mechanism, people
adversely affected by an ADBassisted project can file a complaint
with the Office of the Special Project
Facilitator (www.adb.org/SPF), which
reports directly to the ADB President.
Through the consultation
function, the mechanism seeks
agreement among all parties. A
venue and a process for problem
solving that can include fact-finding
reviews, meetings, roundtable
discussions, stakeholder consultations, and other means appropriate
to the situation are provided.
Separately, affectees may also file
a request for compliance review with
the Compliance Review Panel (http://
compliance.adb.org) if they believe
they have been adversely affected by

a project because ADB has failed to
comply with its operational policies
and procedures. The panel will
assess eligibility and will conduct
compliance reviews agreed to by the
Board of Directors. The Compliance
Review Panel reports directly to the
ADB Board of Directors for such
matters.

The Office of the Special Project
Facilitator received a complaint from
five villages in South Kalimantan
about the Community Empowerment for Rural Development Project
in Indonesia and declared it eligible
in March 2005. The agreed course of
action consisted of preparatory
meetings with all parties involved,
joint fact-finding activities, and
multi-stakeholder consultations.

At the end of September 2005,
the parties signed village agreements for all five villages, and the
consultation phase was concluded.
Three Indonesian NGOs played an
important role as intermediaries. The
parties were to submit a progress
report on the implementation of the
agreements by the end of January
2006.

Through the mechanism, people adversely
affected by an ADB-assisted project can

file a complaint

In December 2004, the Compliance Review Panel received a request
for compliance review of the
Southern Transport Development
Project in Sri Lanka. The Compliance
Review Panel found the project to
have lapses of compliance with
several ADB operational policies and
procedures, including involuntary
resettlement; and environmental
considerations, gender and development, and incorporation of social
dimensions in ADB operations. The
Board approved the recommendations in the Panel’s Final Report in July
2005. The Panel is presently monitor
ing ADB Management's implementation of the remedial actions.

The Panel also monitored ADB
Management's implementation of
the Board-approved remedial actions
under the inspection request of the
Chashma Right Bank Irrigation
Project (Stage Ill) in Pakistan.

The Office of the Special Project
Facilitator and the Office of the
Compliance Review Panel intensified
their outreach activities with
government representatives, civil
society, private sector, academe, and
ADB personnel in nine countries.

The Office of the Compliance
Review Panel hosted the 2™ Meeting
of Accountability Mechanisms,
which was attended by 18 representatives from various accountability
mechanisms in development
institutions.

19

SZ!
a
q
[e)
Eo
ca)
a
faa}
vu
2)
Es
ay

=O ét:)v40}-)ms
[e)
(aos
na
=e
ie)
ao

a
a
[e}
(xe
i]
a
no
a
:
wu
=
a

 

The main instruments for providing
help to ADB’s DMCs are policy
dialogue, loans, equity
investments, guarantees, grants,
and technical assistance

Financing Operations in 2005
FINANCIAL RESOURCES

Authorized and subscribed capital stock amounted
to $50.2 billion. ADB raised long-term funds totaling
$4.2 billion, of which $1.0 billion was raised through
a global public offering.

Gross income, which includes revenue and net
realized gains, amounted to $1.4 billion, $1.0 billion of
which was generated from the loan portfolio,
$375.3 million from the investment portfolio, and
$36.3 million from other sources, of which $24.5 million
came from equity investment operations.

ADB’s Special Funds are the ADF' with 2005
committed resources amounting to $2.6 billion,
‘Technical Assistance Special Fund of $195.5 million,
Japan Special Fund totaling $34.3 million, ADB Institute
Special Fund of $13.9 million, Asian Tsunami Fund of
$578.6 million, and Pakistan Earthquake Fund of
$85.5 million.

FUNDING

About 72.9% of cumulative lending is from OCR.
Funding from OCR comes from three distinct sources:
private placements and capital markets in the form of
borrowing; paid-in capital provided by shareholders; and
accumulated retained income (reserves), which provides
a buffer for risks.

‘The main instruments for providing help to ADB’s
DMGs are policy dialogue, loans, equity investments,
guarantees, grants, and technical assistance.

ADB offers a range of modalities and terms for loans
aimed at improving performance.

Loans are also provided from Special Funds.

‘The ADF offers loans on concessional terms to members
with low per capita gross national product and weak
debt-repayment capacity. It is the only multilateral
development bank concessional fund dedicated
exclusively to economic and social development in the
region. The ADF is financed by periodic voluntary
contributions from donors. The current ADF IX program
is $7 billion for 1 January 2005-31 December 2008.

20

ADF IX grants are assisting countries in reducing
the debt burden of development finance, making the
transition from conflict to peace and stability, and
combating HIV/AIDS and other infectious diseases.

ADB also manages and administers additional funds:
Japan Scholarship Program, Japan Fund for Poverty
Reduction, and Japan Fund for Information and
Communication Technology, including those grants
provided by bilateral and multilateral donors to support
technical assistance and soft components of loans.

In recent years, thematic trust funds focusing on gender
and development, governance, poverty reduction, water,
energy, and the environment were established to support
technical assistance operations and selected components
of loan projects (see page 41).

‘Technical assistance funded through grants or loans
helps maximize ADB’s development impact. Technical
assistance grants are used for preparing projects, and for
supporting advisory and regional activities in areas such
as law and policy reform, strengthening fiscal policies and
procedures, good governance, capacity building, and
natural resource management.

ADB has a triple-A credit rating and actively
mobilizes financial resources through its cofinancing
operations, tapping official, commercial, and export credit
sources. Assistance to its DMCs creates an enabling
environment for private sector development. ADB also
directly finances private sector projects to assist
commercial investors and lenders (www.adb.org/about/
fnncemgt.asp).

OVERVIEW OF OPERATIONS

In 2005, ADB approved 72 loans (64 projects) for

$5.8 billion, 10 equity investments for $217.1 million,

2 guarantees for $68.4 million, 51 grant-financed projects
for $1.2 billion, and 299 technical assistance operations
or $198.7 million for ADB operations of $7.4 billion

(see page 24). In addition, ADB approved 2 multitranche
financing facilities totaling $1.5 billion.

LOANS

Lending with government guarantee accounted for 65 loans
or $5.3 billion (58 projects and programs), comprising

25 loans from ADB’s OCR for $3.9 billion and 40 loans
rom the ADF for $1.4 billion.! This is a 6% increase over
the almost $5 billion in 2004 (an increase of 4.9% for OCR
lending and 11% for ADF lending). Lending without
government guarantee to the private sector accounted for
seven loans for $536.0 million (seven projects) —in
financial terms, this is an increase of 83.2% over the five
loans for $292.5 million (five projects) in 2004.a WS

In discussions with borrowers during 2005, countries highlighted the nes for ADB to expand support for poverty reduction programs

Of the 64 public and private sector projects and
programs approved in 2005, 16 (25%) were categorized
as targeted interventions and 48 (75%) as general
interventions. By theme, sustainable economic growth
was most prevalent and was associated with 53 projects.
By sector, transport and communications received the
largest share of lending (30%).

‘The 54 public and private sector projects represented
a total investment of approximately $19.7 billion, of
which $5.1 billion (26%) will be financed by ADB;
$4.4 billion (23%) by governments and borrowers;
$10.1 billion (51%) by cofinanciers, equity sponsors,
and local finance institutions; and $50.7 million (0.3%)
by project beneficiaries. Eight projects, amounting to
$1.0 billion, were financed under the sector lending
modality, compared with seven projects amounting to
$1.3 billion in 2004.

By theme, sustainable economic
growth was mo co prevalent and
was associated with 53 projects;
by sector, transport and
communications received the
largest share of lending (30%)

The 10 policy-based programs? approved in 2005
were valued at $1.14 billion, compared with 14 programs
for $1.12 billion in 2004. Two program loans approved in
2005 were coupled with an investment project loan ora
technical assistance loan.

EQUITY OPERATIONS

‘Ten equity investments totaling $217.1 million were
approved in 2005, compared with 11 for $164 million
in 2004.

COFINANCING AND GUARANTEE OPERATIONS
ADB actively promotes cofinancing to complement its
assistance to its developing member countries with funds
from bilateral partners and multilateral financial
institutions, export credit agencies, as well as commercial
financial institutions. As of 31 December 2005, non-ADB
funds generated by ADB’s cofinancing operations
amounted to $7.4 billion, including $5.2 billion of
commercial cofinancing from international and domestic
banks and export credit agencies, $1.8 billion of official
loan cofinancing, and $352.6 million of grant cofinancing
from bilateral and multilateral development partners.

Of this, cofinancing raised through ADB’s provision of
financial administration or credit enhancement services
amounted to $322.9 million, including $68.4 million in
credit enhancements (guarantees) for commercial loans,
$30.5 million with partial administration services for

21

<
a
q
[e)
a
a
a
fal
me]
fe)
a
=)

4dO aduvogms
[e)
(aos
na
=e
ie)
ao

a
a
[e}
(xe
i]
a
no
a
:
wu
=
a

 

official loans, and $224.0 million with full or partial
administration services for project grants.

Additionally, ADB established two new trust funds—
PRC Poverty Reduction and Regional Cooperation Fund
($20 million) and Cooperation Fund for Fighting HIV/
AIDS in Asia and the Pacific ($12.8 million)—with
financing commitments of $32.8 million, and replenished
two funds with commitments of $57.2 million.

GRANTS
ADB approved a total of 51 project grants for $1.2 billion.
Of this amount, $246.6 million was funded from ADF IX;
$570.0 million from the Asian Tsunami Fund;
$80.0 million from the Pakistan Earthquake Fund;
and $254.7 million from cofinancing sources with full or
partial administration by ADB, including $28.4 million
from the Japan Fund for Poverty Reduction, $12.1 million
from the Global Environment Facility, $2.4 million from
the Japan Fund for Information and Communication
‘Technology, and $211.8 million for ADB administration
from bilateral and multilateral sources (Australia,
Canada, Finland, Netherlands, New Zealand, Norway,
Sweden, United Kingdom, and European Commission).
In addition, parallel grants of $128.6 million were
provided from multilateral and bilateral institutions
without ADB administration services for seven ADBfinanced projects.

TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE

A total of 299 technical assistance activities for

$198.7 million, including 269 new ones and 30 supplementary, were approved in 2005—in financial terms,
this represents a 2% increase over the 321 technical
assistance activities for $195.1 million in 2004. Of the
299 technical assistance activities, 68 were for project
preparation, 152 were advisory, and 79 were for regional
assistance. Of the total amount approved, $89.5 million
will be financed from the Technical Assistance Special
Fund, $28.4 million from the Japan Special Fund,

$2 million from the Asian Tsunami Fund, and the
remaining $79 million from other multilateral and
bilateral sources.

ADB established two new trust
funds—PRC Poverty Reduction

and Regional Cooperation Fund
and Cooperation Fund for Fighting
HIV/AIDS in Asia and the Pacific

22

MULTITRANCHE FINANCING FACILITIES

Under a new financing modality, two multitranche
financing facilities were approved, totaling $1.52 billion»
These were $770.0 million to Pakistan for the National
Highway Development Sector Investment Program, and
$750.0 million to India for the Rural Roads Sector II
Investment Program. It is expected that loans from these
facilities will be approved starting in 2006.

RESOURCE TRANSFERS

While 2005 shows improvement in disbursement,
lending to clients over the past 10 years was stagnant.

In discussions with borrowers during the year, countries
highlighted the need for ADB to expand support for
poverty reduction programs. The Board discussed a range
of new financial mechanisms and business procedure
reforms under the Innovation and Efficiency Initiative to
respond to client demands.

‘The net transfer of resources to ADB from its DMCs
decreased to $0.4 billion in 2005, compared with
$2.1 billion in 2004. There was a net inflow of
$1.0 billion ($2.6 billion in 2004) to ADB from OCR
borrowers/investors, mainly from full repayment of the
financial sector program loan to the Republic of Korea of
$1.7 billion and prepayments of $0.6 billion in 2005
($2.8 billion in 2004) of OCR loans. However, net
transfers from ADB to ADF borrowers increased from
$468.5 million in 2004 to $612.2 million in 2005
(see tables 27, 28, Statistical Annex, Volume 2).

Loan disbursements in 2005 totaled $4.7 billion
comprising 116.8% of the target for the year. Of the total,
OCR disbursements were $3.5 billion or 74% and ADF
disbursements were $1.2 billion or 26% (see tables 8, 9,
15, Statistical Annex, Volume 2).

Loan service payments reached $5.2 billion in 2005,
compared with $5.6 billion in 2004. The decrease was
mainly because of lower prepayments of $0.6 billion
($2.8 billion in 2004). In 2005, the four largest net
resource transfers from ADB were to PRG, India, Pakistan,
and Viet Nam (see tables 27, 28, Statistical Annex,
Volume 2).

PRIVATE SECTOR OPERATIONS
Atotal of 17 financial markets and infrastructure projects
providing $821.5 million in assistance in the private
sector were approved by ADB in 2005. The interventions
are composed of 10 equity investments of $217.1 million,
7 loans of $536 million, a partial credit guarantee of
$18.4 million, and a political risk guarantee of
$50 million.

ADB’s loan and equity investments mobilizedADB’s private sector loan and equity investments mobilized funding
from other sources, leveraging ADB's own funds by almost 10 times

funding from other sources, leveraging ADB’s own funds
by almost 10 times. In 2005, ADB’s private sector
operations also embarked on technical assistance for
capacity building in areas such as water, trade, finance,
small business and microfinance banks, development of
the asset-backed securities market, and worker
remittances.

ADB has undertaken strategic interventions through
public-private partnerships in projects that boost a
DMC’s domestic capacity to finance private sector and
economic growth, an indispensable ingredient in poverty
reduction. The projects improve the delivery of essential
services and extend them to the poor. Although private
sector operations are still and will remain in the larger
DMCs, ADB continues to look at opportunities in the
smaller borrowing DMCs, following the priorities
identified in various regional and country strategies and
programs. For example, the first and largest private sector
project in the Lao People’s Democratic Republic (Lao

 

PDR) was approved for the Nam Theun 2 Power
Company Limited in 2005.

One hundred ninety-one projects with cumulative
assistance of about $5 billion (inclusive of all types of
interventions) have been approved since ADB
commenced private sector operations in 1983. ADB’s
cumulative equity and loan approvals of $3.5 billion have
catalyzed a total of about $31.6 billion in funding for
private sector projects, leveraging ADB’s investments by a
ratio of 5.4 times. Cumulative disbursements for private
sector projects have thus far amounted to $2.1 billion.

As of 31 December 2005, the overall private sector
exposure amounted to about $1.7 billion, consisting of
$598.2 million in equity investments, loans of
$732.2 million, and guarantees of $361.7 million.

ADB’s private sector exposure is largest in the
infrastructure sector with a total of $820.9 million in
exposure, followed by investment funds and financial
institutions at $742.3 million, with exposure in all other
sectors at $128.9 million.

‘The total private sector exposures are largely in India
(17.1%), PRC (15.6%), Sri Lanka (11.5%), and
Bangladesh (11.2%). Regional projects account for roughly
8.9% of the total.

Capital was freed up for new investments in the
amount of $53.4 million as ADB’s equity shareholdings
in 15 private companies were fully or partly divested
in 2005. Loan repayments for the year, including
prepayments, amounted to $54.7 million, while total
disbursements amounted to $336.2 million.

While ADB constantly explores ways to improve risk
management in its private sector operations, a loss
provision is recorded for equity investments and loans.
The loss provision, which includes impairment loss, was
about $116.6 million as of 31 December 2005. The loss
reserve ratio as a percentage of total outstanding portfolio
was 10.8%.

191 projects with cumulative
assistance of about $5 billion
have been approved since

ADB commenced private sector
operations in 1983

 

Endnotes
1 Total ADF operations—loans and grants—amounted to $1.62 billion

2 Policy-based programs include program loans and policy loan components of sector development program facilities.
3 In 2005, there were four projects with project cost in excess of $1 billion each. In 2004, there were no projects of this size.

23

DE}: |(@]

eo)
a
es}
fal
me]
Oo
a
x4

eo]
9
>
2
is]
fe}
Se2005 in Figures

ADB Operations, 2004-2005

2004" 2005 Change

($ million) (%)
Lending 5,239.0 5,796.8 10.6
Public 4,946.5 5,260.8 6.4
ocr 3,704.5 3,885.2 49
ADF 1,242.0 1,375.6 10.8
Private 292.5 536.0 83.2
Equity and Guarantee 174.4 285.5 63.7
Grant-financed Projects 104.4 1,151.4 1,002.9
Technical Assistance 195.1 198.7 1.8
TOTAL 5,712.9 7,432.4 30.0

* Adjusted to reflect terminated loan and changes in technical assistance

Top Borrowers, 2005
($ million)
1,200 1,600
China, People’s Republic ff TT 7500
dono 1,146
Pakisto I 775
Viet Non 575
Bangladesh 275
ndio 440
Srilanka 253
Philippines 180
Afghanistan MM 135
laoPDR ff 70
Other DMCs NN 245

Regional 2

LOANS

Total $5.8 billion

Loans by Sector, 2004-2005
(%)

% 3.8% s
0.6% re 10.7% 5.4% 5 ony

ee 18.5%

23.7%

    

6.4% 49%
1.0%
0.4%
5.2%
13.4%
12.4% 11.2% 14.9%
2004 2005
HB Agriculture & Natural Resources I industry and Trade
I Education BB Law, Economic Management, and Public Policy
Energy HB Muttisector
Il Finance 1 Transport and Communications
I health, Nutrition, and Social Protection Water Supply, Sanitation, and Waste Management

Total: $5.8 billion (includes private sector loans)
24 Total may not add due to rounding.

$7.4 billion

provided in ADB operations

Operations up by 30%
over 2004 volume

$5.8 billion

for 72 loans
for 64 projects

$1.7 billion

for transport and
communications,
30% of total lendingLoan Approvals and Disbursements, 1995-2005
($ million)

10,000,
9,000
8,000
7,000
6,000
5,000
4,000
3,000
2,000
1,000

0
1995 1996 1997 1998 1999 2000 2001 2002 2003 2004 2005

— Loans Approved ——= Disbursements

Top Recipients of Grants, 2005

($ million)
0 50 100 150 200 250 300 350
to) | 350
Silke TT 227
Pakistan A 121
Afghanistan [NH 100
India SN 100
Bangladesh NNN 86
Cambodia MM 43
Maldives 21
Samoa J 17
Kyrgyz Republic J 16
Other DMCs 67
Regional MN 39

Total: $1.2 billion
Total may not add due to rounding

Top Recipients of Technical Assistance, 2005
($ thousand)
oO 5,000 10,000 15,000 20,000 80,000
China, People’s Rep. of I 13,335
kit IT 15,276
Viet Nan i 12,250
Indonesia ET 10,330
Afghanistan TT 3,435
Cambodia EN 7,615
Bangladesh NN 7,450
india 6,328
Philippines NNN 4,620
Tajikistan [I 4,000
Other OMCs ET 34,166
Regina EE 7 69,266

Total: $198,7 million
Total may not add due to rounding

$4.7 billion

disbursed in 2005, 33% more
than in 2004

$1.2 billion

for a total of 51 projects

$198.7 million

for 299 technical assistance activities

SINVYDRESOURCE TRANSFERS

26

Cofinancing Arrangements, 2001-2005

($ million)

2005,

2004

2003

2002

2001

°

2,000 4,000 6,000 8,000

i Commercial Official Loans Ml Grants

Resource Transfers to Developing Member Countries

($ million)

2004
OCR
Loan Disbursements 2,508
Principal Repayments” (3,953)
Payments of Interest/Charges (1,095)
Net Equity Investment (20)
Net (2,560)
ADF
Loan Disbursements 1,055
Principal Repayments (390)
Payments of Interest/Charges (196)
Net 469
TOTAL (2,091)

()Represents resource inflow from developing member countries
* Includes prepayments of $597.4 million ($2,790.5 million in 2004).

Evaluation Results by Sector, 2005

(%)

Transport and
Communications

Energy

Industry
Multisector/Others
Social Infrastructure

Finance

Agriculture and
Natural Resources

Private Sector

°

20 40 60 80

Daoda_s.
g

BHS/Gs/s PS Mus

GS = generally successful, HS = highly successful, PS~ partly successful
S = successful, US= unsuccessful

Data Source: Project/program performance audit/evaluation reports
containing a rating circulated as of 31 December 2005.

2005

3,498
(3,491)
(1,041)

47
(987)

1,247
(434)
(201)

612

(375)

$7.4 billion

raised in total cofinancing

68.4%

of the 19 public sector
projects/programs
evaluated in 2005

rated successful or highly
successfulPrivate Sector Operations Portfolio Distribution

by Top Countries, 1983-2005
(§ million)
oO 200 400 600 800 1000

Philippines

‘China, People's Rep. of

Indonesia

Pakistan

India

Thailand

VietNam |

Bangladesh _|

Sritanka |

Lao PDR

Other DMcs J

Regional |

 

Total: $4.9 billion

Private Sector Operations, 2001-2005
($ million)

 

0 500 ; 71,000 1,500 2,000 8,500 9,000
2005 8,942
2004
2003
2002
2001

Hi loan I Partial Credit Guarantee

Equity Investment I Others (Swap/Cofinancing Scheme)

Political Risk Guarantee [ll Total Project Cost

Private sector cumulative
approvals of

$4.9 billion,

20.6% more than in 2004

Private sector
assistance up

23.2%

over 2004 volume

0
=
n
ti
m
”N
aa
a)
—|
\e)
AManagement

 

Haruhiko Kuroda
President

   

Liqun Jin Geert van der Khempheng C. Lawrence Young-Hoi Lee Jeremy Hovland
Vice President Linden Pholsena Greenwood, Jr. Managing Director The Secretary
Vice President Vice President Vice President General

28Board of Directors

   
  
 

Volker Ducklau
Director

David Taylor
Alternate Director

Austria, Germany, Luxembourg, Turkey, United
Kingdom

SS.

 

Agus Haryanto
Director

Richard Stanley
Alternate Director

Cook Islands, Fiji Islands, Indonesia, Kyrgyz
Republic, New Zealand, Samoa, Tonga

a>

Patrick Pillon
Director

Niklaus Zingg
Alternate Director

Belgium, France, Italy, Portugal, Spain, Switzerland

La
Paul W. Speltz Paul W. Curry
Director Alternate Director
United States

Pasi Hellman
Alternate Director

Emile Gauvreau
Director

Canada, Denmark, Finland, The Netherlands,
Norway, Sweden

) Sn

Chol-Hwi Lee Batir Mirbabayev
Director Alternate Director

 
  

Republic of Korea; Papua New Guinea; Sri Lanka;
Taipei,China; Uzbekistan; Vanuatu; Viet Nam

Ashok Saikia
Director

Nima Wangdi
Alternate Director

Afghanistan, Bangladesh, Bhutan, India, Lao
People’s Democratic Republic, Tajikistan

 

Chaiyuth Sein Tin
Sudthitanakorn Alternate Director
Director

Malaysia, Myanmar, Nepal, Singapore, Thailand

a
Sibtain Fazal Marita MagpiliHalim Jimenez
Director Alternate Director

Kazakhstan, Maldives, Marshall Islands, Mongolia,
Pakistan, Philippines, Timor-Leste

a

Atsushi Mizuno
Alternate Director

a

Masaki Omura
Director

Japan

 

aa. 0 hp

Richard Moore
Alternate Director

Stephen Sedgwick
Director

Australia; Azerbaijan; Cambodia; Federated States of
Micronesia; Hong Kong, China; Kiribati; Nauru;
Palau; Solomon Islands; Tuvalu

PX

Xiaosong Zheng
Director

a

Xiaolong Mo
Alternate Director

People’s Republic of China

2)un
So
(=)
x
2
a)
es
ie
=
<x
ac
iw
a
e)

 

30

Operations
in 2005

Promoting Growth, Fighting Poverty

{
i
3
}
}

he year 2005 was, in part, one of tragedy in Asia

and the Pacific. It opened as survivors of the

Indian Ocean tsunami picked through the

remnants of lives ruined by giant waves and

closed as the homeless victims of the crushing
earthquake in South Asia struggled to find shelter from the
Himalayan winter.

ADB responded with speed and flexibility to both
natural disasters, providing over $850 million for the
countries hit by the tidal waves and a package of $1 billion
for Pakistan. Early disbursements, although slow in some
areas, were concentrated on reestablishing roads, power
facilities, and other major infrastructure. ADB worked to
focus its efforts to ensure speedy implementation of
projects—and close cooperation with development
partners in response to the disasters (see page 34) as well
as to control the spread of the avian flu virus (see page 38).

Overall operations during the year, meanwhile, focused
on the physical infrastructure needed to remove barriers to
faster economic growth, an important factor in efforts to
reduce poverty when linked with complementary services
and activities that support the broadening of livelihood
opportunities for the poor.

ADB also found new ways to draw in private sector
support for development projects—one of five thematic areas
of its programs—including through risk mitigation products
that can overcome investor hesitancy. Most developing
countries hold enormous untapped potential for greater
involvement from private markets, both international and
domestic, and multilateral development banks can help
unlock this potential and bring it to bear on the massive Penny
funding gap for infrastructure projects.§

Se

SSS ee

SITIZISIIII SLI IP

im * Fr ee ;

SOSw
Lot}
lo}
N
Fe
vo
Zz
le}
=
<
a
ira}
ae
le)

 

Similarly, ADB continued to build “soft” infrastructure under the second of its main development themes,
capacity development. Ensuring strong economic growth
means encouraging laws and strategies that protect
property rights, promote openness, improve financial
governance, and strengthen capital markets.

‘The other thematic areas include regional
cooperation and integration, gender and development,
and environment (see pages 37-43).

‘The most advanced of ADB’s regional programs,
for example, the Greater Mekong Subregion Economic
Cooperation Program (GMS Program), has helped build
a sense of community in the Mekong subregion, making
solid progress in establishing a sound infrastructural base,
and has begun to move into other areas (see page 63).
Realizing the power of partnership, ADB has forged
an alliance comprising eight countries and six multilateral institutions to further regional cooperation

ADB continued to build “soft”
infrastructure under the second
of its main development themes,
capacity development

  

A power station access tunnel at Nam Theun 2 in the Lao PDR; the
GMS is making solid progress toward a sound infrastructure base

32

 

under the Central Asia Regional Economic Cooperation
Program. As a result, the program has become a model

for cooperation and enhancing development effectiveness.
Collectively, about $1.05 billion has been mobilized for
regional cooperation projects under the program for the
next 2 years alone in addition to assembling a vast pool
of knowledge to increase cooperation in Central Asia.

‘Through such efforts, ADB is helping countries
achieve stronger economic growth and make progress in
their commitment to internationally agreed MDGs on
poverty reduction by 2015.

However, the region has more people with
inadequate nutrition, more living in slum conditions,
and more without access to water and sanitation
than any other developing region. To help relieve the
problems faced by the poor, ADB’s lending programs
also concentrate on several sectors, including education,
governance, energy, environment, water, finance, social
development, and health.

Public-private sector partnerships, for example,
have had great success in improving health services in
Bangladesh and Cambodia. In both cases, nongovernment
organizations (NGOs) have been engaged to improve
health service delivery in government clinics (see pages
68, 89-90).

Hundreds of inventive projects have also been
carried out under the ADB-administered poverty funds
over the years (see page 41). One standout project is
the Strategic Private Sector Partnerships for Urban
Poverty Reduction financed by the Japan Fund for
Poverty Reduction and implemented with the corporateled NGO, Philippine Business for Social Progress.

‘The NGO has recorded a number of great successes in
upgrading slums and improving the livelihoods of the
urban poor in Metro Manila (see page 101).

‘There are other funds to accelerate ADB’s efforts
on poverty reduction such as the Poverty Reduction
Cooperation Fund, with financing from the United
Kingdom (see page 41) and the Cooperation Fund in
Support of the Formulation and Implementation of
National Poverty Reduction Strategies financed by
the Netherlands government.

‘Throughout its lending operations, ADB strives
to ensure that environmental issues are central, and
that there is a sharp focus on issues affecting women
and other disadvantaged groups, two of five thematic
priorities in lending operations. Environmental
concerns are reflected in every loan, but several in
particular were designed to square environmental
concerns with the demands of high economic growth
in places such as the PRC (see pages 56-57).INFRASTRUCTURE

Investment in infrastructure accounted for the bulk of
ADB lending in 2005, as it has for several years. It
comprises about 60% of ADB’s overall lending portfolio.
The biggest portion of these loans in 2005 was for
transportation and telecommunications projects at close
to 30%. Loans for energy-related projects amounted to
about 18% of the total, while water supply, sanitation,
and waste management accounted for 11%.

One highlight of the year was the Nam Theun 2
Hydroelectric Project in the Lao PDR. It underscored the
importance to development not only of infrastructure but
also of the private sector, regional cooperation, stakeholder
consultations, and close collaboration among development and finance institutions. Eventually, it will provide
much-needed power to Thailand and much-needed
development funds for the Lao PDR (see page 69).

However, in developing Asia and the Pacific, funds
for infrastructure still fall far short of the estimated need.
Private sector investment generally cooled off in East
Asia after the 1997-1998 financial crisis, particularly
for countries like Indonesia and the Philippines.

Poorer countries in the region continue to attract little
or no private infrastructure funds.

Financing needs for energy, transport, information and
communication technology, and water and sanitation
systems are expected to exceed $250 billion per year over
the next 10 years. East Asia alone will require $1 trillion
in infrastructure investment over the next 5 years to
sustain fast growth and create jobs for its young population, according to a joint study published in March 2005
by ADB, World Bank, and Japan Bank for International
Cooperation. The PRC still accounts for the lion’s share,
at some 80%, of East Asian investment.

In ADB’s 4 decades, more than half of the
$113 billion invested in Asia and the Pacific has gone to
improvements in transportation and communications,
energy, and water supply and sanitation. Commerce
cannot thrive and the poor cannot improve their lives
using potholed roads, archaic phone systems, weak
irrigation, and distant sources of drinking water.

Financing needs for energy,
transport, information and
communication technology,

and water and sanitation systems

are expected to exceed $250 billion
per year over the next 10 years

 

°
vu
Bi
5S
s
9
a

S00z

 

Building infrastructure is clearing the obstacles to economic growth
and helping reduce poverty

‘The experience of the PRC shows how large investments in such infrastructure support stronger economic
growth and reduce poverty. Transport projects, in particular, open up bottlenecks and clear the way to new markets. ADB approved a large loan in September to help
develop a modern railway connecting the provinces of
Henan and Shaanxi (see page 55).

At the other end of the scale, an infrastructure loan in
Indonesia (approved in late 2005) illustrates ADB’s work
to lift living standards in poor and often isolated villages.
ADB is providing $50 million over 3 years to support
government efforts in some 1,800 communities to cushion
the effect of a 186% rise in the price of kerosene caused by
the oil price spike and an end to government subsidies.
The loan will finance construction and repair of roads,
bridges, irrigation systems, water pipes, and drainage
works with the help of community organizations. About
2 million people stand to benefit (see pages 101-102).

For more on ADB’s infrastructural and other lending
programs, see the subregional chapters.

PRIVATE SECTOR DEVELOPMENT

Raising development funds for infrastructure and other
programs is a formidable challenge, and meeting it
requires broad commitment of private sector funding
and expertise. However, getting that support requires
innovation.

The rebuilding of Afghanistan is a case in point.
When the Taliban was pushed from power in 2001, there
was little left of infrastructure. The roads, phone system,
and financial system were shattered. Without such basic
structure, many private sector investors were lukewarm

33)w
Lot}
lo}
N
Fe
vo
Zz
le}
=
<
a
ira}
ae
le)

 

34

ADB Assists Disaster-Struck Areas

akina Bibi was at home with

her children in northern

Pakistan on 8 October 2005

when she felt the mountains
shake. “I thought it was the end of
the world...and we (were) all going
to die,” she recalls. “| started calling
out to Allah and ran out with my
children. Within seconds my entire
house had collapsed.”

The devastating earthquake was
one of two dreadful disasters that
book-ended 2005. The year dawned
just days after massive waves had
torn through coastal areas around
the Indian Ocean, killing more than
200,000 people. And it ended as
millions of survivors of the enormous quake faced winter in tent
camps.

Connecting the two was the swift
response from ADB. In record time,
with marathon legal and assessment
work, ADB launched the Asian
Tsunami Fund. This was equaled by
the speed with which ADB's project
teams processed the emergency
assistance for all disaster-struck
countries. At $600 million, the fund
is the largest grant program in
ADB's history. ADB then used the
knowledge gained to launch the
Pakistan Earthquake Fund in even
less time.

ADB coordinates its assistance for
countries faced with natural disasters
and post-conflict reconstruction
under its Disaster and Emergency
Assistance Policy of 2004. It has had
a disaster policy since 1987 and
provided $2.4 billion in emergency
assistance loans since then.

Under the new policy, however,
ADB is learning from its long
experience in disaster management
gained through a string of calamitous events in the region, whether
the Gujarat earthquake in India in
2001, massive flooding in Bangladesh in 2004 and in the PRC in
1998, or after conflicts in Cambodia,
Timor-Leste, and elsewhere.

The policy emphasizes better
coordination among the many
development agencies and relief
organizations that respond to

Surveying the damage in Pakistan

disaster, and places a premium on
disaster risk planning.

Rebuilding after the Waves
Around the Indian Ocean, more than
a year after the tsunami, the survivors
are putting their lives back together
with ADB’s help. With subsequent
replenishment of the fund, ADB
approved $859.9 million during the
year for the countries hit by the waves.
In Aceh, Indonesia, those funds
are helping the severely affected
agriculture sector get back on its
feet. The waves washed out a fourth
of cash crop areas and rice fields,
taking away the livelihoods of about
320,000 farmers and employees

 

and leaving damage estimated at
more than $200 million.

ADB's Earthquake and Tsunami
Emergency Support Project is helping
communities find the resources they
need to repair farms: agricultural
enterprises are being restored
and support services are being
rehabilitated.

Government and development
partner joint assessments estimated
losses to Indonesia at about $4.7
billion. Some 126,000 lives were lost
in the provinces of Aceh and North
Sumatra, and hundreds of thousands
were left homeless. ADB approved
grant financing of $300 million—
$290 million for the Earthquake and

ADB coordinates its assistance for countries
faced with natural disasters and post-conflict
reconstruction under its Disaster and
Emergency Assistance Policy of 2004Tsunami Emergency Support Project
and $10 million for the Multi-donor
Trust Fund.

In South Asia, the tsunami funds
are helping rebuild the essentials of
economic growth and recovery:
roads, power facilities, and other
major infrastructure. They are being
used to restore livelihoods, provide
primary education and health
services, revitalize water supply and
sanitation, and rebuild homes.

Sri Lanka is faced with the
arduous task of rebuilding about
100,000 houses; replacing 70%
of the fishing fleet; and helping
11,000 companies get back to
business. Another 150,000 people,
now in informal self-employment,
have to get back on their feet.

Sri Lanka is using the funds it
received, a package of just under
$240 million, to help rebuild
roads—especially those in

the north and east of the country—
community-based infrastructure,
fishery harbors, and livelihoods.
ADB's tsunami assistance also
addresses governance issues, legal
empowerment for survivors, and
anticorruption issues.

In India’s states of Tamil Nadu
and Kerala, ADB has helped
thousands of fishermen get back
to work. Electricity, water, and
transportation links are also coming
back. Assistance to India includes
the $200 million Tsunami Emergency

Assistance Sector Project, comprising
a $100 million loan and an Asian
Tsunami Fund grant of $100 million.
Another $5 million will come from
technical assistance grants.

In the Maldives, the tsunami
caused damage of nearly $500
million, equivalent to some 62% of
GDP, although the loss of lives was
comparatively small. ADB’s tsunami
assistance package of $23.2 million
is helping restore infrastructure
(transport, water supply/sanitation/
solid waste management, power,
agriculture, and fisheries). As a result
of lingering tsunami-related effects
coupled with a steady increase in oil
prices, fiscal balances in the Maldives
deteriorated.

ADB Rushes Assistance to
Pakistan after Earthquake
The 8 October earthquake in South
Asia was another debilitating natural
disaster in the region's history,
killing about 73,000 and leaving
another 70,000 severely injured or
disabled. More than 2.8 million
people were rendered homeless, and
2.3 million were left without
adequate food. About 324,000 jobs
were lost to the earthquake, equal to
29% of the previously employed
population in the worst-hit districts.
The cost of reconstruction is
estimated at $3.5 billion.
ADB responded quickly.
ADB President Haruhiko Kuroda

  

fe)
ae)
m
5S
=
fe)
ms
N
co}
So
a

   

<< ae

 

ADB reviews the damage in Sri Lanka (top)
and Aceh, Indonesia (left); the response
was swift and effective

announced a package of $1 billion
or reconstruction and recovery.
Using the experience gained in
putting the Asian Tsunami Fund
together, ADB established the
Pakistan Earthquake Fund in
November to channel grant funding.
Under the $300 million Earthquake Emergency Assistance Project,
‘or example, ADB will help reconstruct lost assets and restore the
transport, power, health, and
education sectors in Azad Jammu
and Kashmir* and in North-West
Frontier Province.

Approved in December, the loan
eatures a quick-disbursing mechanism, amounting to $100 million, to
inance imports of materials urgently
needed for the recovery process.

The project aims to quickly revive
economic activity, with work to
rehabilitate major roads and bridges,
repair hydropower generating
stations, and construct new lines
and facilities. Health clinics and
schools will also be reconstructed.

The project will help reestablish
some government services destroyed
in the disaster. It will offer legal
assistance and address governance
issues and the rebuilding of
government institutions to reduce
the enormous strain on government
services. This includes replacing
documents such as birth and death
certificates, property titles, and
identification cards.

 

 

* Azad Jammu and Kashmir is an area over which India and Pakistan have been in dispute since 1947. The Asian Development Bank does not intend
to make any judgment as to the legal or other status of any disputed territories or to prejudice the final determination of the parties’ claims.

35w
()
S)
N
ze
va
2
9
=
<
co
ir]
ram
{e)

 

Banking from Scratch—Investing in Afghanistan

he damage in Afghanistan
was more than ruined
buildings after a quarter

century of war. The country’s

financial institutions had ceased to
function or no longer commanded
trust; and the central bank had only
a loose grip on the currency. By
contrast, the ancient cash-based
Hawala system enjoyed customer
loyalty others could only envy.
Afghanistan International Bank,
established as a commercial bank

that could foster private sector devel
opment crucial to economic revival,
was among the first institutions to
step in. Under a contract with Dutch

banking giant ING and supported by

an ADB investment of $2.6 million
for a 25% stake, it is helping rebuild
the shattered financial sector.

“It was very basic when we started

here, and we had to start from
scratch. This is not a branch office;
we were setting up an all-new local
bank. We needed not only to find a
building, but also to create a whole
new banking system. We couldn't
just adopt the system of our parent
organization,” says Chief Executive
Officer John Haye, a banking veteran
who came to the bank from ING.
The bank was established in

Kabul in March 2004 as a local bank

 

speakers, in Pakistan.

The next step was finding clients.
Again, unlike other foreign banks,
the bank could not tap an established clientele. “Most of the other
banks operating here had merely
shifted to their Pakistan clientele
(many of them Afghan expatriates).
So they had a clientele already,”
says Mr. Haye.

For its lending portfolio, the bank
had some help from the United
States Agency for International
Development, with a $2 million

ja ol

A man and a boy prepare the day's bread from scratch; rebuilding the country has also
meant starting from scratch

sectors it feels are financially
rewarding and need support. These
include import substitution businesses that can replace lucrative
goods now expensively imported
from Pakistan or elsewhere, and
promising Afghan export sectors
that can generate foreign currency.

Afghanistan International Bank, estab
operating to international standards. funding program used to finance lished asa commerIt opened its first branch in Mazar-e- the agriculture sector and plans for a

Sharif in August 2005, followed bya —_ another line to fund small- and cial bank that could
branch in Kandahar in October. medium-sized enterprises. f .

Staffing was among the big The bank has also developed its oster private sector
challenges. To find corporate own lending portfolio. “You have to =
banking experts and chief accoun- be careful which clients you are development crucial
tants, skills not widely available in a selecting,” says Mr. Haye, referring to to economic revival,
country emerging from 25 years of the need to avoid those involved in
war, the bank had to look abroad. It the huge illicit drug trade in was among the first

found suitable and affordable
candidates, including Pashto

Afghanistan and other areas.
The bank has chosen economic

institutions to step in

about committing money. With ADB support for private a company that provides most of Afghanistan’s telecommu
sector investments, however, a new commercial bank was nications—has helped produce spectacular results from
established and began expanding in 2005, and an

investment fund to help small- and medium-sized

establishing a mobile phone network (see pages 90-91).
Nonetheless, many obstacles to private sector growth

still exist in Asia and the Pacific. Economic and

regulatory uncertainties; macroeconomic instability;

enterprises was set up (see above).
Another ADB loan in 2004, $35 million to Roshan—

36high tax rates; onerous regulatory and administrative
requirements; corruption; and insufficient infrastructure,
finance, and skills are all significant barriers to
investment.

‘Through its private sector operations, ADB is finding
innovative ways to overcome investor reticence toward
some parts of Asia. It is mitigating risks, for example,
through the creation of guarantee instruments such as
partial credit guarantees and political risk guarantees,
which protect investors against confiscation, nationalization, breach of contract, and other factors.

In 2005, ADB reinitiated a partial credit guarantee
to banks in Pakistan to encourage lending to small- and
medium-sized enterprises, while in Afghanistan it was
in the process of disbursing loans of $5 million for the
Afghanistan Investment Guarantee Facility and
$10 million for a supplemental political risk guarantee.

Other major private sector projects included the
‘Tangguh Liquefied Natural Gas project in Indonesia, for
which ADB approved a $350 million loan to build and
operate gas production wells, platforms, and a liquefied
natural gas facility. ADB made an equity investment of
$75 million in the PRC’s Bank of China, and in Pakistan,
it will provide $37.3 million to help bridge a pending
electricity shortfall in its first assistance to a private
sector hydropower project (see page 87).

REGIONAL COOPERATION

Regional cooperation and integration have intensified in
many parts of Asia and the Pacific over the past decade.
Intraregional trade now accounts for 55% of East Asia’s
total, up sharply from 35% in 1980; free trade agreements
are proliferating; and rapid growth in the PRC and India
is encouraging the trend.

ADB believes regional cooperation and integration
will continue to play a significant role in the growth of
Asia and the Pacific. It has stepped up its effort to
encourage both and is managing the area under the new
Regional Cooperation and Integration Strategy, which
rests on four pillars: regional and subregional cooperation

 

programs, trade and investment cooperation and integration, monetary and financial cooperation and integration,
and the provision of regional public goods (such as in
efforts to control HIV/AIDS or avian flu; see page 38).
‘The GMS Program is widely recognized as an
example ofa successful subregional initiative established
in 1992 with the support of ADB. In addition to ADB’s
vigorous effort toward continued strengthening of the
GMS Program, it envisages significant scaling up of
support for the Central Asia Regional Economic Cooperation Program in the coming years, and work there has

found momentum in building roads, ports, and bridges;
planning power and telecommunication networks; and
untangling trade relationships through harmonized policy
and institutional environments (see pages 49-50).
Leaders in the Pacific region have overcome a recent
lack of momentum toward greater cooperation and are
moving forward with agreement to a new Pacific Plan
for regional cooperation and integration.
In South Asian countries, dialogue is increasing
through several programs, including the South Asian

°
vu
Bi
5S
s
fe}
a

pa

Association for Regional Cooperation, South Asia Subre
soo

gional Economic Cooperation, and Subregional Economic
Cooperation in South and Central Asia programs.
Meanwhile, emerging trends of trade and investment

 

integration in Asia prompt ADB to have a more coherent
approach to promote trade and investment intraregionally
as well as extraregionally. ADB will focus on supporting
regional and subregional policy dialogue on trade and
investment, conducting research on regional trade
agreements—how to make them a building block toward
multilateral liberalization—and strengthening institutions within developing member countries.

Support for monetary and financial cooperation and
integration has been significant. ADB has supported
several regional initiatives, including those under the
Association of Southeast Asian Nations (ASEAN),
ASEAN +3, Asia-Pacific Economic Cooperation, and
Asia-Europe Meeting. ADB will expand its support to
other regional groups, such as the South Asian Association
for Regional Cooperation Finance Ministers and Central
Asia Regional Economic Cooperation Program Finance
Ministers. ADB has conducted extensive research to
support the ASEAN +3 Research Group and the Asian
Bond Market Initiative Working Group. ADB publishes
the biannual Asia Economic Monitor and Asia Bond Monitor
and maintains the AsianBondsOnline website.

In April 2005, ADB established the Office of Regional
Economic Integration to act as an internal focal point for
regional cooperation and integration efforts. Two special
advisors to the President in charge of regional cooperation
and integration were appointed to coordinate and
streamline activities undertaken by ADB’s departments
and advise on strategic measures and initiatives to
enhance the organization’s role in furthering regional
cooperation and integration in Asia and the Pacific.

In April 2005, ADB established
the Office of Regional Economic
Integration

37w
Lot}
lo}
N
es
wv
Pa
ie)
=
ee
co
rn
ram
S)

 

IMPROVING FINANCING OPTIONS
‘To expand the range of financing instruments and modalities, ADB began testing three new initiatives in 2005
under the Innovation and Efficiency Initiative. The aim
is to increase flexibility to respond better to client needs.
Anew approach to cost sharing and expenditure
eligibility has been put in place. This will improve ADB’s
project financing capability ina manner more consistent
with market practices. The new arrangement involves
more flexible cost-sharing limits and expands the
categories of expenditures ADB can finance (land
acquisition and payments for rights-of-way, taxes and
duties, and other expenses such as bank charges, leasing,
and secondhand goods). It also does away with the old
distinction between foreign exchange and local costs and

are screening proposals with local government units.
Refinancing propositions are also under consideration.

ADB began testing the new multitranche financing
facility in 2005 with two loans for major road investment
programs in South Asia (see pages 85 and 87). Designed
to provide finance “as you go” and somewhat akin toa
commercial bank’s letter of credit, this facility will allow
ADB to finance long-term investment programs in
structured and staggered multiple loans. It allows clients
to combine financing sources with ADB. The financing
sources can include multilateral development banks,
bilateral agencies, private equity groups, commercial
banks, and capital market operators.

The facility establishes a means to target specific,
sequential components of large stand-alone projects;

a level of investment plans.

Anumber of nonsovereign transactions with stateowned enterprises (majority owned by the state) are being
prepared, namely in India and Indonesia. Project teams

slices (or tranches) of sector investments over a longer

Cooperation Combats Avian Flu

f the 175 human cases

of avian flu the World

Health Organization

has reported globally
since the outbreak in January 2004,
almost all have been in Southeast
Asia. Of those, 93 occurred in Viet
Nam, with deaths now at 42.

In October 2005, ADB approved
$58 million for two planned grant
projects—a $28 million regional
project addressing bird flu and
$30 million for a communicable
disease project in the Mekong.

It plans to rapidly allocate an
additional $600,000 to continue
its support to the World Health
Organization's regional office in
Manila and extend this to its Delhi
office covering Southeast Asia.

However, estimates of the cost
for controlling avian flu and
preparing for a possible pandemic
stand at about $1 billion for the
next 5 years. Viet Nam's Ministry of
Agriculture and Rural Development
and Ministry of Health estimate
their needs to be about $300
million each. The government is
providing about $130 million per
year, mainly for the Ministry of
Agriculture and Rural Development,

38

and external agencies have committed about $90 million so far.

Viet Nam has been the epicenter
of the epidemic to date, with cases
reported from most provinces and
totaling over 1,900 outbreaks. About
60 million of the 300 million chicken
and ducks have died or been culled
and a nationwide campaign is in
place to identify and contain new
outbreaks in flocks.

Although the poultry sector is
relatively small, the economic cost is
put at about $200 million, and a
similar sum has been used for control
efforts, most of it governmentfinanced. The flu epidemic is
estimated to have lowered GDP by

Viet Nam has been
the epicenter of the
epidemic to date,
with cases reported
from most provinces
and totaling over
1,900 outbreaks

time frame than the current norm; equity investments;
financial intermediary credit lines; and guarantees.
ADB has been expanding its coverage into local

about 0.5% in 2004. In the medium
term, ADB could commit at least
$470 million to support the overall
response in Asia, it announced in
November. Assistance could include
about $300 million for new projects
in the PRC, Indonesia, Philippines,
and Thailand.

 

Estimates of the cost for controlling
avian flu and preparing for a possible
pandemic stand at about $1 billion for
the next 5 yearscurrency lending through bond issues and commercial
swaps in the PRG, Philippines, and Thailand.

GOOD GOVERNANCE, FIGHTING CORRUPTION
Governance and legal systems have been called the weakest link in the strong chain of development in a number of
economies in Asia. Poor government, ineffective policies,
and corruption hinder economic growth and development,
and thus efforts to reduce poverty. Public administration is
often also used to serve a small portion of the population
who rely on the state and its institutions to provide special
privileges for their businesses or their personal interests.

ADB was the first multilateral development bank to
adopt a governance policy applying to all its operations,
in 1995, following it up 3 years later with the Anticorruption Policy. Governance work has covered a range
of areas. In national government administration, for
example, ADB’s work embraces Viet Nam’s Support
Implementation of the Public Administration Reform
Master program. It includes assistance to the Marshall
Islands to refocus its public sector for effective delivery
of basic social services, and technical assistance to
Azerbaijan to develop a competition policy framework.

ADB is helping local governments in Cambodia,
Indonesia, Pakistan, and Philippines to decentralize and
improve their financial management and service delivery.
In law and judiciary, ADB has supported the Access to
Justice Program in Pakistan; set up a cadastral commission in Cambodia; and strengthened legal education in
the Maldives, Mongolia, and elsewhere.

Among loans approved in 2005, ADB is providing the
Indonesian government with $200 million to support its
medium-term development plan, which aims to raise
average GDP growth to 7% annually by 2009 from about
4% in 2004. Reaching that goal in Indonesia will require
greater macroeconomic stability, and sound fiscal and
financial management. To support the government’s
plans, ADB is working with the World Bank and using the
Development Policy Support program, which includes a
series of structural reform packages. It is one of several
recent loans in Indonesia that will help improve governance (see page 99).

In its second Asian Environment
Outlook, released in 2005,

ADB stressed that a “grow now,
clean up later” approach to
economic growth is unacceptable

And to keep its governance programs sharp and its
fight against corruption up-to-date, ADB began a review
in 2005 of the implementation of its governance and
anticorruption policies.

ENVIRONMENTALLY SUSTAINABLE GROWTH
Serious environmental problems have accompanied strong
economic growth in the region: air pollution chokes many
major cities, forest cover is the world’s lowest per capita,
and wetlands and wildlife habitat are disappearing fast.
Often the poor suffer the worst effects.

‘The countries of Asia and the Pacific must continue
to grow strongly to overcome poverty. However, in its
second Asian Environment Outlook, released in 2005, ADB
stressed that a “grow now, clean up later” approach to
economic growth is unacceptable. Degradation is not
inevitable, and a healthier environment in Asia and the
Pacific is a prerequisite to economic development that
includes the poor.

Under its Environment Policy of 2002, ADB is
working to reshape views toward environmental manage
fe)
me)
a
5S
=
g
&

S00z

 

ment under five goals: promoting environmental interventions to reduce poverty directly, mainstreaming environmental considerations in economic growth, supporting the
maintenance of global and regional life support systems,
building partnerships, and integrating environmental
safeguards into ADB operations.

In 2005, 9 of 58 new public sector loan projects had
environmental sustainability as a theme, totaling some
$605 million, up from $569 million in 2004. They
represented 12% of total public sector lending. Of the total,
80% funded urban environmental improvements through
provision or rehabilitation of water supply, sanitation,
and waste management systems; 15% promoted the
conservation of natural resources; while 5% funded the
rebuilding and restoration of tsunami-affected areas.

Many of ADB’s interventions support several of the
Environment Policy goals simultaneously.

‘The Fuzhou Environmental Improvement project in
the PRC, Kerala Sustainable Urban Development, Phase
II project in India, and Regional Development project in
the Maldives, for example, are improving environmental
infrastructure, strengthening planning and environmental
management, and building management and implementation capacity. These projects were designed with strong
stakeholder participation and are expected to provide the
basis for stronger economic growth potential.

‘The Sanjiang Plain Wetlands Protection project,
meanwhile, began establishing a program in 2005 to
conserve globally significant biodiversity while generating
employment and income in a sustainable manner in the

39w
=)
S)
~]
2
wa)
2)
4
co
wi
ram
[e)

 

northeast corner of the PRC (see page 57).

Assistance was approved to restore tsunami-affected
areas in Sri Lanka in ways that will conserve coastal
ecosystems.

‘Technical assistance grants are also an important
source of environmental work. Of the nearly $307 million
in technical assistance and grants approved in 2005 with
environmental objectives—almost triple the 2004
amount—77% funded improvements to urban or rural
environments, 15% promoted natural resource conservation, and 7% helped mainstream the environment into
the legislative, policy, and institutional frameworks.

‘The amount of technical assistance grants approved
in 2005 to strengthen environmental capacity at the
national and regional levels doubled to about $38 million
from $19 million in 2004. Moreover, environmentoriented grants rose to $260 million compared with
$24 million in 2004, with a sizeable portion of this
increase attributed to rebuilding tsunami-affected areas
in Sri Lanka ($203 million), but also including protection
of wetlands in the Sanjiang Plain of the PRC
($12.14 million) and support for the Tonle Sap sustainable livelihoods initiative in Cambodia ($15 million;
see page 65).

In the Mekong subregion, ADB is undertaking
extensive work to ensure that environmental sustainability
remains of paramount importance as the subregion’s
economy expands. In May 2005, in conjunction with its
endorsement of the Core Environment Program, the
environment ministers of countries of the GMS Program
endorsed the establishment of an environment operations
center in Bangkok to enhance cooperation in the subregion.

ADB continued to support efforts to reverse patterns
of land degradation afflicting many parts of the region, an
important factor contributing to poverty. As an executing
agency of the Global Environment Facility, ADB is
leading three partnerships for combating drought and
desertification and mitigating drought in Central and
East Asia.

In 2004 and 2005, for example, ADB approved a
regional technical assistance activity, the Prevention and
Control of Dust and Sandstorms in Northeast Asia, in

ADB continued to support
efforts to reverse patterns of
land degradation afflicting many
parts of the region, an important
factor contributing to poverty

40

 

   

Furrowing the land to protect against erosion in Gansu, PRC (top);
through efforts such as those to protect the Tonle Sap, ADB is
striving to achieve environmentally sustainable growth

collaboration with the United Nations Environment
Programme, United Nations Economic and Social
Commission for Asia and the Pacific, and United Nations
Convention to Combat Desertification. Four countries are
actively participating: PRC, Japan, Republic of Korea,
and Mongolia.

‘The Central Asian Countries Initiative for Land
Management, meanwhile, with ADB serving as the lead
Global Environment Facility agency, will support the
implementation of a 10-year program of country-driven
activities and resource mobilization to pursue sustainable
land management in those countries.

In collaboration with the International Finance
Corporation, ADB approved a small-scale technical
assistance for the training of representatives from financial institutions in the region on environmental and social
due diligence, and on finding new business opportunities
in the environment field.

In parallel with these new efforts, ADB has continued
to implement a range of ongoing regional environmental
programs. The Poverty and Environment Program in 2005helped integrate environmental considerations into
poverty reduction projects, while ADB’s Renewable
Energy, Energy Efficiency, and Climate Change program
supported by Canada, Denmark, and Netherlands has
provided funding to the Climate Change Adaptation
Program in the Pacific, which is helping some Pacific
countries prepare for the likelihood of rising seas and
more frequent severe storms (see page 78).

ADB is also one of the few international institutions
providing underlying finance to projects that can produce
tradeable emission-reducing credits for governments to
meet commitments made under the Kyoto Protocol
(www.adb.org/CDMP). Three such projects have already
contracted credit buyers, and several more projects will
be coming on board in 2006 or 2007 through assistance by
the Clean Development Mechanism facility.

Among ADB’s major existing environmental partnerships, work continued in 2005 under the Clean Air
Initiative—Asia, which now has over 130 members
including cities, governments, development agencies,
NGOs, academic organizations, and corporations.

The initiative’s work centered on the establishment
of national networks in several parts of the region to
promote investment and policy reform supporting air
quality improvement.

In 2005, ADB presented its second Asian Environment
Outlook, which focuses on opportunities for the region to
address environmental issues more effectively through
strong engagement of the private sector. It argues that the

Fund Leads by Example

pursuit of a sustainable future for Asia and the Pacific
must include a business sector that takes responsibility
for its environmental performance and also recommends
how the public and private sectors can work together more
closely to achieve environmental goals (www.adb.org/
environment/aeo).

ENVIRONMENTAL AND SOCIAL SAFEGUARDS
ADB has three safeguard policies covering the environment, indigenous peoples, and involuntary resettlement.
These policies aim to avoid, minimize, and/or mitigate

fe)
ae)
m
5S
=
fe)
ms
N
co)
oO
a

adverse environmental and social impacts including the
marginalization of vulnerable groups that may result from

 

development projects.

Working under the overriding safeguard mandate to
ensure all projects “do no harm,” ADB reviewed all
projects for Board approval during the year to ensure
safeguard policy compliance. In a review of 74 projects
and equity investments, 59 projects required environmental assessment reports, 20 required the preparation of
a plan or specific action for indigenous peoples, and
41 required resettlement plans and/or frameworks.

More than a hundred staff members at headquarters

and resident missions were trained on ADB’s safeguard
requirements. ADB reinforced knowledge sharing through
the regular update of its websites on the safeguards.

During the year, ADB initiated a safeguard policy
update to enhance the effectiveness of its safeguard
policies and ensure relevance to changing client

harpening the poverty

reduction efforts of

developing members is

the focus of the ADBadministered Poverty Reduction
Cooperation Fund.

The $60 million grant facility
from the United Kingdom's Department for International Development
was opened in 2002 to fund a wide
range of projects that are designed
to improve policy, strategy, and
capacity through advisory support,
small-scale pilots, research, and
knowledge sharing.

Many of the projects test
how best to target assistance to
the poor and to socially excluded
groups, and serve as good examples

for broader ADB investments.

For example, a $700,000 technical
assistance grant in the Greater
Mekong Subregion is trying to
identify a set of successful methods
to raise awareness of HIV/AIDS
among specific ethnic minority
groups.

By 2005, the fund had been
fully committed to 109 projects,
with $20 million endorsed last year.
Five technical assistance grants had

been completed, and most others
had been started. Two of the
completed grants went to the PRC,
which has a $9 million window.
Two others helped the Lao PDR,
with one helping silk weavers gain
business skills and another assisting
the country in developing a social
protection strategy. Another went
to support a consultative process
for developing multi-donor poverty
reduction efforts across the Pacific.

Many of the projects test how best
to target assistance to the poor and
to socially excluded groups

41w
()
S)
i
2
va

 

needs and new lending modalities and instruments
(www.adb.org/Safeguards/policy.asp). A discussion note,
uploaded on the ADB website, describes the objective
and scope of the safeguard policy update. Face-to-face
consultations will start after completion in 2006 of

an independent study by the Operations Evaluation
Department on the implementation of the three
safeguard policies.

ADB approved assistance to help strengthen the
country safeguard systems of selected member countries
and will shortly begin to develop its corporate approach to
country safeguard systems. Together with the United
States Agency for International Development, ADB also
launched the Asian Environmental Compliance and
Enforcement Network, which will serve as an important
new mechanism for sharing of best practices among Asian
environmental decision makers.

In relation to involuntary resettlement and under
regional technical assistance for Capacity Building for
Resettlement Risk Management, ADB assisted three
participating countries—Cambodia, PRC, and India—to
identify resettlement risks and improve capabilities for
handling involuntary resettlement.

In Bangladesh, ADB is working with the Ministry of
Land to develop a national policy on involuntary resettlement, while in Cambodia, technical assistance for
Enhancing the Resettlement Legal Framework and
Capacity Building is helping the government develop a
subdecree on compensation, resettlement, and rehabilitation. In Nepal, the National Planning Commission is
preparing a national resettlement policy framework with
ADB support. In Viet Nam, technical assistance for
Enhancing the Resettlement Legal Framework and
Institutional Capacity assisted the government in
developing a decree on compensation and resettlement
and to disseminate it nationwide.

In its continuing effort to safeguard the interests of
indigenous peoples, ADB also actively participated in
regional and global discussions. In two regional workshops, ADB engaged in constructive dialogues with some
indigenous peoples network members from the region.

It also took part ina dialogue between the United
Nations Permanent Forum on Indigenous Issues (the

 

 

 

In Bangladesh, ADB is working
with the Ministry of Land to
develop a national policy on
involuntary resettlement

42

Permanent Forum), World Bank, Inter-American Development Bank, ADB, and International Fund for Agricultural
Development. Discussions highlighted the need for
international finance institutions to rethink the concept
of development, with the full participation of indigenous
peoples in development processes and taking into account
their rights and traditional practices. ADB also continued
to work with the World Bank and the Inter-American
Development Bank on the joint publication of the G/obal
Handbook on Indigenous Peoples Policy.

GENDER AND DEVELOPMENT
As a major thematic concern of ADB’s Poverty Reduction
Strategy, gender issues have been increasingly
mainstreamed in ADB loan operations across a range
of sectors: agriculture, water resource management,
transport, rural infrastructure, governance, education,
and water supply and sanitation. In 2005, ADB continued
to strengthen its overall loan portfolio addressing gender
issues. Significant gender mainstreaming was evident
in 37% of loans in 2005. Of these, 17% (11 loans) were
classified with a gender theme, while 20% (13 loans)
were classified with significant gender mainstreaming.
‘The majority of the remaining loans indicate the potential to benefit women in some ways.

Loans addressing gender equality objectives were
represented in all three core strategic areas of ADB
operations—pro-poor, sustainable economic growth;

 

inclusive social development; and good governance.
While they tend to be concentrated in the health,
education, and water supply sectors, some loans were
for irrigation, rural development, agriculture and natural
resources, small- and medium-sized enterprises, public
resource management, and rural infrastructure. ADB also
continued to improve how it addres
large infrastructure projects, especially road projects.
‘The multi-donor Gender and Development
Cooperation Fund established in 2003 continued to
support gender equality and women’s empowerment
through regional and technical assistance activities.
As of 31 December 2005, 4 technical assistance projects
and 24 subprojects under regional technical a
were approved for funding to enhance gender design
features in ADB loans, support initiative and strategic
approaches to empower women and girls, and promote

es in

 

s gender is.

 

 

 

ance

regional awareness and cooperation on gender issues.
‘These include 14 subprojects approved in 2005.
Other technical assistance approved in 2005
included the $4.5-million Pakistan Gender Reform
Action Plan Implementation, financed by the
Government of Canada and the United Kingdom'sBy ensuring that gender issues are reflected in all its work, ADB is
helping improve women’s lives

Department for International Development through
the ADB-administered Poverty Reduction Cooperation
Fund, and a $550,000 regional technical assistance
activity, Legal Empowerment for Women and
Disadvantaged Groups.

Meeting the MDGs by 2015 will mean ensuring
that development programs increasingly address issues
affecting gender equality and women’s empowerment.
Goal 3 specifically calls for promoting gender equality
and women’s empowerment, whereas Goal 5 calls for
improving maternal health. In addition, two other goals—
Goal 2 on education and Goal 6 on HIV/AIDS—include
gender-specific or gender-disaggregated indicators.

‘To help ensure that gender concerns are reflected
in its country strategies and programs, ADB has been
preparing country gender assessments and related
strategies, which specify how ADB intends to promote
and implement its overall gender and development
objectives ina DMC, and discuss how ADB assistance
will address gender disparities. In cooperation with
multilateral/bilateral donors and United Nations
agencies, country gender assessments were completed for
Mongolia, Timor-Leste, and Uzbekistan and are under
way for Fiji Islands and Indonesia. Assessments were

As a major thematic concern of
ADB’s Poverty Reduction Strategy,
gender issues have been
increasingly mainstreamed

into ADB loan operations across

a range of sectors

8)

ae)
m
mo
oA
=
fe)
ms

S00z

prepared for Azerbaijan, Kazakhstan, Kyrgyz Republic,
and ‘Tajikistan under regional technical assistance on
Mainstreaming Gender into Poverty Reduction Strategies
in Four Central Asian Republics.

In 2005, ADB continued the review of the implementation of the Gender and Development Policy to assess
progress and effectiveness since its adoption in 1998,
the results of which will form the basis for the Gender
and Development Action Plan. As part of the review,
ADB conducted rapid gender assessments on gender
equality results in selected projects in Bangladesh,
Cambodia, Nepal, and Pakistan. The assessments aim
to determine whether the introduction of project-specific
gender action plans and strategies has improved project
implementation, outreach, and results for women as
compared with those for men.

 

SOCIAL PROTECTION

ADB defines social protection as a set of policies and
programs designed to reduce poverty and vulnerability by
promoting efficient labor markets, lowering people’s
exposure to risks, and enhancing their capacity to protect
themselves from hazards and loss of income.

Loan projects in 2005 contributed to social protection schemes in pensions in India, work protection in
Pakistan, child protection in the Kyrgyz Republic and
Azerbaijan, and social security reform in Mongolia. Social
protection in the informal sector, social insurance, labor
issues in enterprise restructuring, and migration for
employment were among the areas of special focus during
the year.

KNOWLEDGE MANAGEMENT

In July 2005, ADB marked its first year implementing
the Knowledge Management Framework. Through its
extensive operations in the region, ADB has always been
a major repository of information. The framework aims
to make better use of this information by making ADB
a hub for knowledge about Asian countries, encouraging
sharing within ADB and among DMCs.

43to
Lot}
lo}
x
2
vn
2)
=
<
fara
wo
a
(S)

 

 

Gaining knowledge and new skills in a computer class in Viet Nam

 

Binding groups of professionals
together in organized communities
of practice helps them share

their knowledge

Consultations Enhance Role of NGOs

DB's efforts to involve

NGOs and other civil

society organizations

meaningfully in its
development activities are evolving
quickly. Through deeper and more
organized consultations, these
groups are now taking part more
frequently at the early stages of
project and policy formulation, and
implementing an increasing number
of effective projects targeted at
poverty reduction.

For example, a regional 3-year
technical assistance project begun in
2003 and completed in December—
Promoting NGO Support for Poverty
Reduction in the Greater Mekong
Subregion—has demonstrated
through practical trials in the GMS

44

Vice President Geert van der Linden put it more
simply: “In India, the people want to find out how things
are done in the People’s Republic of China.”

In 2005, the Knowledge Management Center worked
to establish communities of practice to help generate and
share knowledge within ADB. A community of practice
includes groups of professionals who share common
expertise in areas such as education or governance
but who may otherwise be spread out in different departments. Binding them together in organized communities
of practice helps them share their knowledge.

Other communities of practice within ADB concern
energy, environment, water, finance, gender and social
development, health, regional cooperation, and transport;
the number of groups was narrowed last year from
19 to 10.

Among other activities, ADB also signed a
memorandum of understanding with the Republic of
Korea to establish the e-Asia and Knowledge Partnership
Fund at ADB. This aims to narrow the “digital divide”

in the region by providing technical assistance for
promoting information and communication technology
in e-government, e-learning, e-trade, and e-commerce.

In 2006, the framework will include initiatives to
increase awareness through an internal communications
plan and a knowledge management electronic newsletter,
to increase the number of activities to help staff integrate
knowledge management concepts into their work

how their early involvement in
formulating ADB's latest regional
and country strategies can contribute to the depth and support for
such strategies. By nurturing trust
among government, civil society
organizations, and ADB, it has
strengthened foundations for
regular future collaboration.

Some of the most dynamic ADBassisted projects involving NGOs,
meanwhile, were being carried out
through a pilot NGO small-grants
facility established under a regional
technical assistance for NGO
Partnerships for Poverty Reduction.

Through this 3-year activity, ADB
supported more than 70 NGO-run
projects in 15 countries, with the last
grants made in 2005.

 

Through closer consultations, civil society
representatives are getting involved early
in projects and policyprocesses and to create incentives to encourage staff to
support knowledge sharing. Together with the Office of
Information Systems and Technology, systems will be
developed for capturing, classifying, and accessing
information to encourage the exchange of information and
collaboration among staff.

ASIAN DEVELOPMENT BANK INSTITUTE
Encouraged by the Board of Directors, the Tokyo-based
Asian Development Bank Institute increased its focus

in 2005 on work in infrastructure for regional cooperation,
as well as continuing work in other areas of poverty
reduction, governance, and private sector development.

‘The institute responds to stakeholders’ requests for
assistance in research, training, and the supply of local
language materials. For example, after the Indian Ocean
tsunami, the institute coordinated a conference for
Indonesia to promote financial accountability in
managing funds for conflicts, tsunamis, and other
disasters. It also commissioned a study on long-term
efforts to rebuild damaged areas of Sri Lanka, translating
it into Bahasa Indonesia to share the lessons learned.

Under poverty reduction, the institute published
the book Poverty largeting in Asia, which includes studies
on the effectiveness of poverty targeting in the PRC,
India, Indonesia, Philippines, and Thailand.

It also released a study in English and Khmer on
Cambodia’s accession to the World Trade Organization,
and lessons for other least developed countries.

Work in the private sector area included aspects of
the revitalization of the PRC’s northeast region, focusing
on trade with Japan and the Republic of Korea, enterprise
performance, and technological capability.

As part of knowledge management activities, more
than 50 independent expert reviews of developmentoriented CD-ROMs have been posted on the institute’s
website. A guidebook to Asian think tanks and their
research programs is also online.

AUDIT AND INTEGRITY

‘The Office of the Auditor General, through the Financial,
Administrative and Information Systems Division,
conducts independent appraisals of ADB activities to
ensure that internal controls are adequate and effective,
and to improve efficiency. Through the Integrity Division,
it addresses alleged incidents of corruption or fraud in
ADB projects, or by staff.

The office completed 20 audits in 2005 related to
financial and administrative operations of resident
missions and a representative office, administration of
loans and technical assistance in two countries; realloca
(e}

AAAS El

Nie

  

Fighting corruption and ensuring integrity help all people in Asia
and the Pacific, including this family

tion of loan proceeds, and post-implementation review
of two modules of ADB’s financial and human resources
information system.

ADB barred 40 firms and 33 individuals in 2005 as
a result of corruption investigations, making a total of
nearly 250 firms and individuals currently ineligible to
work with the development institution.

The Integrity Division, which enforces ADB’s
Anticorruption Policy, received 199 complaints last year,
up 44% from 2004.

The Integrity Division also conducted four project
procurement-related audits as part of its efforts to reduce
weaknesses that may allow fraud, corruption, or abuse in
ADB-financed projects. It also recommended strengthening of internal control over the procurement process.

ADB barred 40 firms and
33 individuals in 2005 as a result
of corruption investigations

45=
WY
¢
é
=
2
way
©
a
Ze
<¢
b
iva)
as
fi

 

46

 

 

Armenia, Azerbaijan,
People’s Republic of China,
Kazakhstan, Kyrgyz Republic,
Mongolia, Tajikistan,
Turkmenistan, Uzbekistan

 

he People’s Republic of China (PRC) has made

remarkable progress in reducing poverty,

establishing an example among emerging

economies in East and Central Asia, including
q the South Caucasus. By 2004, the number of
people living on $1 per day or less had been slashed to about
10.4% of the population from 33% in 1990, while by 2005
the number of rural poor under the official poverty line had
fallen to 23.7 million from 250 million in 1978.

‘To the west, and blessed with oil, natural gas, cotton,
gold, and hydroelectric potential, the Central Asian and the
Caucasian republics are also growing strongly and stepping
away from their post-Soviet decline.

‘The PRC’s economic rise is well documented. In 2005,
economic growth surged to 9.9%, led by strong investment,
accelerating consumption, and robust exports. Foreign trade
exceeded $1.4 trillion to make it the third highest volume
in the world. The government recently adjusted its growth
figure for 2004 from the 9.5% originally reported to 10.1%.

Its economy is now the world’s fourth largest.

Major economic developments in 2005 included the
reform of the foreign exchange regime. Beginning in July 2005,
the PRC adopted a package of reforms installing a managed
floating exchange rate system based on market supply and
demand and with reference to a basket of foreign currencies.

Inflation in 2005 was under control at 1.8%, below the
government’s 4% target, while urban unemployment was kept
to 8.39 million.

TanteXoleelecale mits silk being spun

Nin’Samarkand, Uzbekistan, HAN along ‘

VAN AMIN alata) WCET) neighbor: ¥

grew stronglyin 2005

aDPR ay ; =
d 7 Ni i
ASA,

aN uy ay a +a)East and Central Asia: Main Indicators,? 2005

Real GDP Average Foreign
Poverty Growth Inflation Trade Direct

Rate Rate Rate? Balance Investment

Country (%) (%) (%) ($ million) ($ million)
Armenia 39.0 13.9 0.6 (534.0) 151.0
Azerbaijan 29.0 26.4 9.6 2,701.0 3,466.0
China, People’s Republic of 10.4 9.9 1.8 133,450.0 60,325.0
Kazakhstan 14.3 9.4 7.6 9,817.0 2,544.0
Kyrgyz Republic 45.9 (0.6) 4.4 (435.0) 60.0
Mongolia 36.1 6.2 1227 (95.0) 110.0
Tajikistan 56.6 6.7 Tn (279.0) 55.0
Turkmenistan 29.9 10.0 5.9 ly SOle0! 233.0
Uzbekistan 26.2 7.0 v8 1,300.0 200.0

— no data available, ( ) negative.
® Where 2005 data are unavailable, data for the latest year have been provided

High oil prices are an area of concern, however, and

<<
mI
3
a
zt
a
=
rs
pan
ie)
a
z
<x
=
i)
a
wi

pose some risks to the 2006 economic outlook. In 1993,

 

the PRC was an oil exporter, but as its economy surged,
so have its energy needs. It now imports 40% of its oil,
and its energy efficiency still needs improvement.

In Mongolia, GDP expanded by 6.2% in 2005,
down from 10.7% in 2004. Strong growth in 2005 was
underpinned by higher livestock production, investments
in the mining and mineral sectors, and surging
commodity prices. But all these have been insufficient to
bring down the high levels of poverty—more than one
third of the population—that emerged in the transition
from centrally planned to market-based economies.

In Central Asia, growth has been strong in recent years,
fueled by gas and oil deposits in Azerbaijan, Kazakhstan,
and Turkmenistan; gold in the Kyrgyz Republic; cotton in
Uzbekistan; and construction in Armenia.

However, Central Asia remains poor, and a gap is
opening up between those countries with oil and gas, and

 

those without. Per capita incomes in the oil producers in
2005 were already more than double those in the Kyrgyz Stronger economies and greater regional cooperation mean a better
Republic, Tajikistan, and Uzbekistan. In Kazakhstan's future for children like these in Bukhara, Uzbekistan
case, per capita GDP was $3,600 in 2005, compared with
Uzbekistan’s $515. Agriculture accounted for about 50%
of the Kyrgyz economy in 2005, but for just 6.3% of .
i mene In Central Asia, growth has been
Kazakhstan’s.
The value of exports increased by 87% in Azerbaijan strong in recent years, fueled by

in 2005 and by 40% in Kazakhstan, with il . _ os
secerinetiled andaa@efchoan Ad etd. vescex gas and oil deposits in Azerbaijan,

reserves of 0.6% and 0.8% of the world total, respectively.
Turkmenistan has less oil, measured at about 0.3% of Kazakhstan, and Turkmenistan;
world reserves in 2003, but also accounts for about 2.1% of a .
global natural gas production. gold in the Kyrgyz Republic;

If the Central Asian and the Caucasian republics areto ¢otton in Uzbekistan; and

sustain strong growth, they will have to direct more attention

to the nascent private sector, the development of which has construction in Armenia

48lagged behind both the PRC and Mongolia. In these
countries, except in Armenia, which has undergone largescale privatization, the private sector is still being
overshadowed by large state enterprises; afflicted by weak
support for services; and hamstrung by poor policy, legal,
and regulatory frameworks.

Regional Cooperation

Economic cooperation in the East and Central Asian
regions is advancing strongly, fueled by the PRC’s economic
success. The PRC is actively working with its neighbors to
foster regional cooperation. To the south, through Yunnan
province, the country has been a member of the GMS
Program from its inception in 1992. In 2005, the GMS
Program began integrating the PRC’s Guangxi Zhuang
Autonomous Region into its activities (see page 63). To the
west, the PRC—through the Xinjiang Uygur Autonomous
Region—is also finding new opportunities as a member of
the Central Asia Regional Economic Cooperation Program,
as the Central Asian republics look to reestablish age-old
commercial ties with their booming neighbor.

Remote and landlocked, yet a land bridge connecting
Asia with Europe and Russia with South Asia, Central Asia
and the Caucasus are finding regional cooperation a
necessity. Under the program, founded in 1997 with ADB
support, the countries are rediscovering regional trade and
finding bigger markets.

Spanning nearly 4,000 km across Central Asia, from
Baku, Azerbaijan on the west coast of the Caspian Sea,
through Ulaanbaatar in Mongolia, the program includes
Azerbaijan, Kazakhstan, Kyrgyz Republic, Mongolia,
‘Tajikistan, Uzbekistan, and the Xinjiang Uygur
Autonomous Region of the PRC. Afghanistan was admitted
in November 2005, while Russia has been invited to join.

As of end-2005, ADB had approved 13 loans totaling
$357.1 million for nine program-related projects and had
attracted cofinancing amounting to $52.8 million for three
projects. ADB had also approved 37 technical assistance
grants totaling $23.8 million.

‘The program is an alliance of development partners
that includes ADB, World Bank, International Monetary
Fund, Islamic Development Bank, United Nations
Development Programme, and European Bank for
Reconstruction and Development. So far it has focused
on transport, energy, and trade.

BOOSTING TRANSPORT AND TRADE
ADB provided assistance in the transport sector for
improving important sections of the old Silk Road and

other regional transport corridors through a series of road
projects in Kazakhstan, Kyrgyz Republic, and Tajikistan.

A loan was approved in November 2004 for the
Southern Transport Corridor Road Rehabilitation project
to improve the road linking Osh in the south of the Kyrgyz
Republic through Irkeshtam on the PRC border with the
major Xinjiang market town of Kashgar and beyond.

In November 2005, ADB approved another loan,
the Dushanbe-Kyrgyz Border Road Rehabilitation I
project, to improve a section of the road running north from
Dushanbe in Tajikistan to the border with the Kyrgyz
Republic. Further projects are under consideration to
complete the improvement of the north-south corridor
through the Kyrgyz Republic and Tajikistan, to extend it
west toward Kashgar and Urumdi in the PRC, and to
extend it east into Uzbekistan.

Under the Central Asia Regional Economic
Cooperation Trade Facilitation Program, the PRC has
strengthened bilateral customs cooperation with other
participating countries. PRC customs entered into bilateral
cooperation agreements and protocols with Azerbaijan,
Kyrgyz Republic, and Uzbekistan, and initiated harmonization of customs manifest with Kazakhstan and a joint
customs control initiative with Mongolia. Significant
progress has been made in preparing accession to the
Customs Convention on International Transport of Goods
under Cover of Transports Internationaux Routiers Carnets
to promote transit trade and transform Central Asia and
the western part of the PRC into a modern Silk Road.

PRC customs is also a major host and financial sponsor of
regional training and knowledge forums. Five events have
been organized in the PRC since the beginning of the
‘Trade Facilitation Program.

) GNV LSV4

VISV IVYLNA

 

 

and assistance to small- and medium-sized enterprises

49Major work has been done to improve Central Asia’s roads as
on this one between Bishkek and Osh in the Kyrgyz Republic (right),
making trade easier (above)

ADB is also helping the regional transport sector with
assistance to the Shanghai Cooperation Organization
in drafting a regional road transport agreement including
PRG, Kazakhstan, Kyrgyz Republic, Russian Federation,
"Tajikistan, and Uzbekistan.

A large amount of infrastructural lending to the
Central Asian republics is channeled through the
Central Asia Regional Economic Cooperation Program
and, as in other regions, ADB has aimed to get the
private sector more deeply involved. Central Asia needs
about $2-3 billion per year in new infrastructure from
2005 to 2010 to sustain growth and reduce poverty,
up from about $1 billion per year.

For now, however, most is state-funded and
insufficient. Red tape, excessive bureaucracy, insufficient
property rights, and corruption are just some factors
discouraging private sector growth. There is potential,
however, particularly for private sector participation in
railways, water supply, and aviation.

 

Alarge amount of infrastructural
lending to the Central Asian
republics is channeled through

the Central Asia Regional Economic
Cooperation Program and, as in
other regions, ADB has aimed to
get the private sector more deeply
involved

East and Central Asia: Approvals by Country, 2005 ($ million)

Equity and
Country Loans Guarantees
Armenia oa a
Azerbaijan 52.00 China, People’s Republic of 1,499.52 95.00
Kazakhstan = ea
Kyrgyz Republic 15-50) =
Mongolia 10.00 =
Tajikistan 29.50 Turkmenistan a s
Uzbekistan 55.00 ea
TOTAL 1,661.52 95.00

— = nil, ADF = Asian Development Fund
* Includes trust funds and externally financed grants.

50

Grant-Financed Projects

Other Technical
ADF IX Funds® Assistance Total
= = 0.15 0:15)
a 1.50 2.94 56.44
= 12.14 18.33 1,624.99
= = 1.30 1230
15.50 = 1.80 32.80
= 1.00 1.65 12.65
a 1.80 4.00 35.30
- - 2.30 57.30
15.50 16.44 32.47 1,820.93POWERING CENTRAL ASIA

In the energy sector, projects under the Central Asia
Regional Economic Cooperation Program included
improving regional gas transmission networks,
rehabilitating the power supply in Tajikistan,
rehabilitating the Central Asia—-Central Europe gas
pipeline, and working on power interconnection.

‘The program established the Members Electricity
Regulators Forum in 2005 to support regional electricity
trade through better regulation of power industry reforms
and the promotion of efficient energy use.

‘The program is gaining recognition, particularly with
its expansion to Afghanistan, and plans to include Russia.
It operates in partnership with other regional
organizations such as the Shanghai Cooperation
Organization and the Eurasia Economic Community
(which was recently merged with the Central Asia
Cooperation Organization), and is the only forum that
brings together all the countries of the region, key
multilateral institutions, and regional trade organizations
within a single institutional framework.

East and Central Asia: Cumulative ADB Lending
by Country as of end-2005 ($ million)

Armenia =
Azerbaijan 104.00
China, People’s Republic of 16,375.40
Kazakhstan 501.60
Kyrgyz Republic 588.50
Mongolia 620.34
Tajikistan 273.84
Turkmenistan =
Uzbekistan 914.70
TOTAL 19,378.38

= nil.

East and Central Asia: ADB Disbursements
by Country 2004-2005 ($ million)

0.00 200,00 400.00 600.00 800,00 1,000.00

Azerbaijan 0.5

ine Ts 635.7
People's Republic of 892.12

30.04
Kazakhstan Boe

fic <M 54.42
Kyrayz Republic Baa
B49
Mongolia Bie
19.62
Tajikistan ee

ME 89.32
Uzbekistan 8300

i 2004 2005

Turkmenistan had no disbursements during the period

 

A giant transformer in Nurek, Tajikistan; the Central Asia Regional
Economic Cooperation Program is taking measures to support
regional electricity trade

fa
oe
im
4
2
Zz
Si

MINA

  

East and Central Asia: ADB Lending by Country
2004-2005 ($ million)

0.00 400.00 800.00 1,200.00 1,600.00

Azerbaijan M39,

i 1259.50
People's Republic of 1,499.52

Kyrgyz Republic’ Ml
Bm 4163

Mongolia MI ,¢
Tajikistan’ 33.4

mss
Urbekistan M&S

I 2004 2005

Kazakhstan and Turkmenistan had no loans during the period,
“Includes loan components for regional project.

East and Central Asia: Cumulative ADB Disbursements by Country as of end-2005 ($ million)

Armenia oa
Azerbaijan 0.50
China, People’s Republic of 9,920.25
Kazakhstan 432.58
Kyrgyz Republic 452.41
Mongolia 491.98
Tajikistan 99.59
Turkmenistan oa
Uzbekistan 374.31
TOTAL 11,771.62

= nil.

51<
ey
<x
ai
=¢
ce
es
=
wo
U
is)
Fa
<
i
a
¢
ny

 

 

By strengthening its partnership with the PRC and members of
the Central Asia Regional Economic Cooperation Program, ADB aims
to promote cooperation in the region's trade and transport

ADB is strengthening its
partnership with the PRC and
members of the Central Asian
Regional Economic Cooperation
Program to enhance cooperation

in trade and transport in the region

ADB is strengthening its partnership with the PRC
and members of the program to enhance cooperation in
trade and transport in the region. An expressway project
linking Urumai, the capital of Xinjiang Uygur
Autonomous Region, to the border of the Kyrgyz
Republic, and an urban infrastructure and environment
improvement project have been included in the 2007
and 2008 lending program.

In March 2005, the PRC contributed $20 million to
set up a technical assistance fund to promote regional
cooperation and poverty reduction among the countries
of developing Asia.

East and Central Asia: Public and Private Sector Loan Approvals by Country, 2005 ($ million)

Country OCR

AZERBAUAN

East-West Highway Improvement
CHINA, PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF
Sanjiang Plain Wetlands Protection 15.00

49.00

Jilin Water Supply and Sewerage 100.00
Development
Fuzhou Environmental Improvement 55.80
Business Development Bank Limited? 20.72
Central Sichuan Roads Development 600.00
Xi'an Zhengzhou Railway 400.00
Henan Wastewater Management
and Water Supply 100.00
Hunan Road Development III 208.00

KYRGYZ REPUBLIC

Banking Sector and Capital Market =
Development Program

MONGOLIA

Financial Regulation and Governance Program =

TAJIKISTAN

Dushanbe-Kyrgyz Border Road =
Rehabilitation (Phase II)

UZBEKISTAN

Information and Communications Technology =
in Basic Education

Kashkadarya and Navoi Rural Water Supply oa
and Sanitation Sector

— = nil, ADF = Asian Development Fund, OCR = ordinary capital resources.

Total Date
ADF Total Project Cost? Approved
3.00 52.00 93°20) 8 Dec
ea 15.00 55.55 14 Mar
= 100.00 232.20 18 Jul
= 55.80 185.50 29 Jul
= 20.72 35.72: 11 Aug
oa 600.00 2,077.00 22 Sep
= 400.00 4,131.93 22 Sep
= 100.00 200.00 9 Dec
= 208.00 519:511 15 Dec
15.50 15.50 15.50 20 Dec
10.00 10.00 10.00 15 Dec
29°50) 29750) 39.50 17 Nov
30.00 30.00 43.00 27 Oct
25.00) 25.00 36.00 12 Dec

2 Total project cost includes financing by ADB, governments, borrowers, beneficiaries, and sub-borrowers; cofinancing from official, export credit, and
commercial sources; equity sponsors; and local participating private companies and financial institutions.

© Private sector loan without government guarantee.

52Loan Helps Clean the Air in the PRC

coal is the primary fuel in

the PRC. It fires heavy

industry and envelops

cities in a smoky, unhealthy haze, particularly in the
winter months. Improving air quality
means finding more efficient ways to
use coal to meet energy needs.

Coal mines are already extracting
methane from mines around the
country, which improves coal mining
safety. Inefficient methane removal,
however, causes the gas to be
released into the atmosphere, with
the PRC coal mines releasing about
6 billion cubic meters of highly
potent methane each year. Methane
has 21 times the greenhouse impact
of carbon dioxide on the earth’s
atmosphere.

Another way is to make better
use of cleaner-burning methane gas,
present in many coal mines, for
heating and power, and to convert
methane into less harmful carbon
dioxide. In doing so, the process can
generate tradable emission reduction credits by using the Clean
Development Mechanism, a major
provision of the Kyoto Protocol on
climate change.

To that end, ADB is lending
$70 million for the Liaoning
Environmental Improvement project
to extract, store, and distribute
methane gas from coal mines.

A component of the project centered
around Fuxin is financed with
backing from a $15.8 million loan.

The Liaoning project will capture
up to 46 million cubic meters of
methane for residential and
industrial use, delivering it through
new and upgraded pipelines and

substations to the cities of Benxi and
Fushun.

Before 2002, none of the major
cities in Liaoning province in the PRC
met national air quality standards.
By 2003, 7 of 14 did, helped by a
concerted government effort to close
small and highly polluting coal-fired
heating boilers.

The project will also supply large
and efficient heating boilers
equipped with modern pollution
control devices, and allow the
closure of more than 412 small,
polluting coal-fired boilers.

Meanwhile, ADB’s Clean Development Mechanism Facility and
Clearworld Energy, a clean-energy
development company based in
Beijing, have structured agreements
for the Fuxin Mining Group to sell
greenhouse gas emission reduction
credits to two buyers under the
mechanism. The mechanism allows
industrialized countries to invest in
developing country projects and to
acquire credits that they can then
use to meet reduction targets under
the Kyoto Protocol.

ADB set up its facility in September 2003 to provide technical and
administrative assistance to eligible
projects in parallel with project
identification and loan processing.

A larger undertaking to capture
methane is the Coal Mine Methane

fal
a
a
|
>
Zz
‘S)
fa)
m
Za
=
)
os
z
a
a
S

  

Cleaner air through reduced methane
emissions is the goal of several projects

Development project in Shanxi
province. This project will use the
latest technologies to boost
methane production produced by
coal mines to about 265 million
cubic meters to fuel a 120-megawatt
power plant, and will transport
methane to consumers under

a $117.4 million ADB loan.

It is expected to save about
430,000 tons of coal per year.

The Liaoning Environmental Improvement
project will capture up to 46 million cubic meters
of methane for residential and industrial use

‘The Regional Cooperation and Poverty Reduction
Fund, the first such one set up by an ADB developing
member, will encourage greater sharing of knowledge
and experience on regional cooperation and poverty
reduction across developing Asia. All ADB developing
members will be eligible for grants.

In addition, the Inner Mongolia Autonomous Region
of the PRC has been exploring ways to cooperate in cross
border trade, transport, and environmental protection
with Mongolia. Mongolia is also a member of the program,
and a part of several other regional cooperation efforts.

ADB Assistance

‘To enhance relevance, ADB is adapting its programs
in the PRC to improve infrastructure development,

33EAST AND CENTRAL ASIA

f

ADB assistance is helping the PRC rail network expand to the far
reaches of the interior, helping address income disparities

environmental protection, agriculture and natural
resource management, energy conservation, social
sector development, private sector development,
and regional cooperation.

In Central Asia and the Caucasus, ADB’s lending
portfolio has emphasized regional cooperation. Loan and

 

grant support has also helped in several other areas in
individual countries, including programs to help combat
land degradation under the Central Asian Countries
Initiative for Land Management (see page 55).

Assistance in East and Central Asia totaled about
$1.84 billion in 2005.

PEOPLE’S REPUBLIC OF CHINA
Improving Connectiv
ADB approved loans to the PRC totaling about

$1.5 billion in 2005, with total assistance of about

 

 

54

    

$1.6 billion. It also approved $18.3 million in technical
assistance, and secured $2.5 billion in cofinancing. About
81% of ADB lending in 2005 went to transportation,
particularly roads and railways; about 17% for projects for
urban infrastructure and urban environmental improvement; and the rest for agriculture and natural resources.

One way that ADB is helping address income
disparities between the east and west, and between urban
and rural areas, is through “connecting” infrastructure,
particularly roads and railways that lead to larger markets.
About 30 loans since 1991, totaling nearly $6.2 billion,
have financed approximately 4,500 km of expressways,
which encourage interregional trade, and 7,700 km of
local road networks to foster economic efficiencies.

 

‘The “go west” policy involves a massive
redistribution of resources from coastal areas to
12 western provinces. The policy is designed to create
conditions supportive of economic activities, transport,
infrastructure, utilities, education, health, environmental
protection, and private sector promotion.

A $600 million loan to finance construction of
a 244-km expressway from Ya’an to Lugu in Sichuan
province was among the features of transport assistance
approved in 2005. Part of a $2 billion project, the
expressway will complete a 900-km route connecting
the Sichuan capital, Chengdu, with Kunming in Yunnan
province; upgrade 678 km of local roads in poor areas;
and rehabilitate four public transport centers.

Located in the poor mountainous periphery of the
province, the PRC’s seventh smallest, the project will
improve the network and increase access to jobs, markets,
and social services. It also supports the Western RegionAgreement Tackles the Dust Bowl in Central Asia

he Central Asian republics

suffer severe land degrada
tion caused by years of

unsustainable agricultural
practices including overgrazing and
deforestation, and natural disasters.
Degraded lands hamper economic
progress, are a health risk, and
undermine the region’s social
structure. Yet efforts to address
problems have generally had limited
success. They have been poorly
coordinated, and have suffered from
weak policy, legislation, and
regulation.

In answer, ADB and the Global
Mechanism of the United Nations
Convention to Combat Desertification have spearheaded formulation
of the Strategic Partnership Agreement for UNCCD Implementation
in the Central Asian countries.

The agreement aims to coordinate
amore integrated response among
the development agencies to the
subregion’s land degradation
problems.

Members include the Global
Mechanism, ADB, Canadian
International Development Agency,
the Convention to Combat Desertification Project of the German Agency
for Technical Cooperation, Swiss
Agency for Development Cooperation, International Fund for Agricultural Development, International
Center for Agricultural Research in
Dry Areas, and United Nations
Development Programme. The World
Bank has applied for membership.

The Central Asian Countries
Initiative for Land Management has

 

Desertification can be tackled only through an integrated and cooperative effort
involving all development partners

emerged as the main vehicle for
reaching their goals. With ADB
serving as the lead Global Environment Facility agency, the initiative
will support the implementation of a
10-year program of country-driven
activities and resource mobilization
covering 2006-2015, with an
additional 5 years for implementation (to 2020).

In 2005, it was in the design
phase, with a multi-country
partnership framework currently
being prepared for submission
to the Global Environment Facility
in March 2006.

The initiative will help describe
the necessary policy, legislative, and
institutional conditions needed for
sustainable land management and
will present an approach to mainstreaming sustainable land management into national development

fal
BS
a
a)
>
Pa
Ss)
i}
cy
S
)
os
a
os
a
aes

 

planning and budgetary processes.
It will also identify the leading
problems and constraints to sustainable land management, and identify
priority areas and investment and
technical assistance requirements.

The agreement

aims to coordinate

a more integrated
response among
development
agencies to the
subregion’s land
degradation problems

Development Strategy of the government, which aims to
reduce development disparities between the interior and
coastal regions.

Similarly, a $208 million loan for Hunan’s rural and
mountainous Xiangxi Tujia and Miao Autonomous
Prefecture will help build an expressway to provide access
to the poor region.

Related objectives are behind PRC plans for
construction of eight passenger railway lines by 2020.

In 2005, ADB approved a $400 million loan to develop
the railway connecting the provinces of Henan and
Shaanxi, with plans for 459 km of track and nine new
stations from Zhengzhou in Henan to Xi’an in Shaanxi.
The line will help link PRC cities and ports with Central
Asia and Europe by connecting the Beijing-Guangzhou,
Shanghai—Xuzhou, and Beijing—Wuhan main lines in the
east with the Xi’an—Baoji—Lanzhou, Xi’an—Baoji-Chengdu,
Xi’an—Ankang, and Xi’an-Yan’an main lines in the west.

55<<
mI
3
a
zt
a
=
rs
pan
ie)
a
z
<x
=
i)
a
wi

 

   

Improving the Environment

‘The PRC’s rapid growth and urbanization have taken a
toll on the environment. Urban infrastructure construction has not kept pace and large-scale investments will be
required to improve air quality in major cities and towns,
treat wastewater discharged into rivers and lakes, and
provide safe drinking water supplies. Land degradation is
also a serious concern for the PRC and one that is linked
to agriculture. Sandstorms are an annual event, with
desertification encroaching in the west and north, while

 

other areas suffer as farmers convert wetlands and other
natural areas into agricultural uses (see page 57).

ADB provided three loans in 2005 to improve the urban
environment of cities in Jilin and Henan provinces and
Fuzhou municipality. ADB’s partnership with the PRC in
urban infrastructure and environmental improvement is
expected to strengthen in the next few years.

‘To fight air pollution, ADB has undertaken several
projects to provide clean energy, one of which is building a
hydroelectric power plant in Gansu province, where coalfired thermal plants have been the main source of energy.
Approved in 2003 and expected to be completed in 2007,
the $35 million project is constructing the 98-megawatt
Xiaogushan Hydropower plant to serve Zhangye city.

It will also upgrade the power supply to three poor rural
townships—Xishui, Huazhai, and Anyang. Zhangye
suffers frequent power interruptions and shortages,

 
    
 

a situation that has worsened as demand has risen and
new generating plants have been slow to come online.

‘Two other projects, in Liaoning and Shanxi, are
helping extract and use the methane gas produced in coal
mining as a clean fuel (see page 53).

A flower seller in Kunming, Yunnan province; the province is gaining
new economic opportunities through the GMS Program

56

An important $1 million technical assistance grant
helped develop a strategy for pollution control in the
Songhua River Basin, and is in line with the PRC
government’s goal to develop a suitable river basin
approach for managing water quality. The strategy
gives attention to the critical areas of water quality
and pollution control management, as well as addressing
a number of related policy, technical, institutional,
regulatory, and financial issues. The government has
committed $1.9 billion to clean up the Songhua River’s
domestic and industrial wastewater, providing a basis
for further, faster, and sustainable growth of the
northeast economy.

Private Sector Development

‘The PRC’s private sector has been growing strongly, and
more rapid development is expected as the government
continues its efforts to tackle constraints such as unclear
private property rights, market entry barriers, high
taxation for domestic private enterprises, and inadequate
access to financial services. The government has asked
ADB for strong support. In response, ADB’s private sector
operations in the PRC have focused on environmental
improvement and on the infrastructure, energy, and
financial sectors.

In October 2005, ADB made an equity investment
of $75 million, less than a 1% stake, in the Bank of China
Limited, its largest equity transaction to date from its
private sector operations. This is an important effort to
support the PRC as it reforms its financial sector to
prepare for greater competition under the World Trade
Organization and fits ADB’s view that an efficient
financial sector is a critical component of the region’s
economic development. The Bank of China is one of the
country’s largest commercial banks and among the first
state-owned banks slated for privatization.

More than 80% of small- and medium-sized
enterprises still have trouble accessing financial services.
Under one loan in 2005, ADB agreed to lend the
Business Development Bank Limited $17.5 million
and 2.5 million euros.

‘The Business Development Bank now extends
mainly dollar-denominated loans to medium-sized
requiring dollar financing in Shanghai and
nearby coastal provinces. It is also permitted to conduct

   

enterpris

 

More than 80% of small- and
medium-sized enterprises still have
trouble accessing financial servicesWetlands Plan Marks a Watershed

   

i

‘

E \Y, Ww Ber homeless,
and 1he. economy poorer—marked

a critical change in views about flood
control. It helped officials recognize
the havoc caused by the destruction
of natural systems that for millennia
had sustained the country’s river
basins.

“There was an awakening after
the 1998 floods: People asked ‘Why,
when we've been spending all this
money, are these floods still
happening and causing more and
more severe damage?’ The emerging
view is that floods must be managed
under an integrated approach and in
better harmony with nature,” says
KyeongAe Choe, ADB principal
natural resources management
specialist.

That “new” thinking is behind the
$55 million Sanjiang Plain Wetlands.
Protection project, which is designed
to manage watersheds in an
integrated way to protect humans
and biological diversity on the vast
Sanjiang Plain in Heilongjang
province in the northeastern PRC.
This is in line with the long-term
focus of ADB assistance for the
Songhua River.

The plain covers an area the size of
the Republic of Korea and supports
about 37 ecosystems, 1,000 plant
species, and 528 vertebrate species.
Yet 5 decades of agricultural
expansion have imperiled it, and
just one fifth remains in the original
forest and wetland cover.

Residents have drained wetlands
to expand farms and have channeled
floodwaters. Immense networks of
drainage canals, pumping stations,
and flood control dikes have altered
the cycle of entire watersheds and
destroyed millions of hectares of
natural marshes and wet meadows.

To put the plain on a sustainable
path, the project adopts an integrated watershed and wetland
management approach, combining
conservation with the economic
welfare of rural people. It began in

PRC in 1998—which

/ assive flooding in the
| left thousands dead,

 

:
on

Two views of the vast Sanjiang Plain, where an ADB project is improving management

mid-2005 and is funded jointly by
the Global Environment Facility, PRC
government, and ADB.

It will increase forest cover in
upper watershed areas and improve
water resource planning and
management. It also targets
restoration of 3,433 hectares of
wetlands and the repopulation of
wetland natural reserves with
globally threatened wildlife species.
Six key nature reserves will directly
benefit from habitat and wildlife
protection.

 

lage watersheds
inte rated way

ect humans
cal diversity

57

fal
oS
a
a)
Bo
Pa
Ss)
i}
ina}
a
z
a
Bo
a
aes<<
mI
3
a
zt
a
=
rs
pan
ie)
a
z
<x
=
i)
a
wi

 

Grant Fortifies Diets for Children

lack of basic vitamins and

micronutrients in the diet

is damaging the cogni
tive health of children in
Central Asia, where deficiencies are
unusually high.

Only two parts of the world are
now suffering from a rise in the
levels of stunted children caused by
malnutrition: Central Asia and SubSaharan Africa. Iron-deficient
women are more likely to die in
childbirth and to give birth to
children with impaired or delayed
motor and cognitive skills.

In Tajikistan alone, more than
30% of children suffer from a severe
lack of iodine in their diets, which
can impair brain development.
There are pockets of Central Asia
where the incidence of iodine
deficiency is greater than 90%.

Yet salt can be iodized for as little
as $0.05 per person per year, and
wheat flour can be fortified with iron
for as little as $0.09, according to
the World Bank.

A two-phase project under the
Japan Fund for Poverty Reduction—
Improving Nutrition of Poor Mothers
and Children in Asian Countries in
Transition, begun in 2001 and
provided with over $7 million in
2004—is one of two approved by
ADB to remedy the situation.

A second phase of the project,
running from 2005 to 2007, is
promoting fortification as a simple
solution to the malnutrition problem,
and is helping iodize salt and fortify
wheat flour with iron, folic acid,
and other minerals in Azerbaijan,
Kazakhstan, Kyrgyz Republic,
Mongolia, Tajikistan, and Uzbekistan.

AJapan Fund for Poverty Reduction project is
promoting fortification as a simple solution
to the malnutrition problem, and is helping
iodize salt and fortify wheat flour

After almost 3 years of implementation, both production and
consumption of iodized salt had
substantially increased in all
participating countries. As of April
2004, production of iodized salt in
Kazakhstan, Kyrgyz Republic, and
Tajikistan had surpassed the project
goal of 66% of domestically
consumed salt. Tajikistan produced
more than twice the project goal.

 

Fortifying basic, staple foods will allow
children like this one in the Kyrgyz
Republic to grow up healthy

limited renminbi business with foreign enterprises in
specified major cities. Under the loan, it will expand

lending to small- and medium-sized enterprises, increase
its capital base, and obtain a broader renminbi business
license to provide local currency loans to local enterprises.

The year 2005 also saw the launch of the first yuandenominated bond (the Panda Bond) for CNY1 billion
($124.9 million), part of a bigger plan to boost local
currency capital markets throughout East Asia and
improve the availability of funds for the private sector in
the PRC.

MONGOLIA

A $10 million loan for the Financial Regulation and
Governance Program, approved in 2005, will develop a
sound and broad-based financial sector. The program aims
to reduce borrowing costs and expand credit, strengthen
governance in banks, and enhance the role of nonbank

 

—_
Education provides the basis for a sound economy

58financial institutions in mobilizing savings for
investment capital by helping establish a single regulator
for the sector. The program will establish a financial
intelligence unit in the Bank of Mongolia to help reduce
the risks from money laundering.

In 2005, ADB approved $1.65 million in technical
assistance to Mongolia to prepare the Urban Development
and Housing project to support capacity building for
financial sector reforms, and for a prefeasibility study
of the Western Regional Road Corridor. A $1 million
Japan Fund for Poverty Reduction grant for Maternal
Mortality Reduction will help Mongolia meet this
important MDG.

CENTRAL ASIAN AND CAUCASIAN REPUBLICS
ADB approved about $152 million in loans to the Central
Asian and Caucasian republics in 2005, almost the same
as in 2004. A third of the loan assistance went to
Uzbekistan at 36%, followed by Azerbaijan with 34%,
‘Tajikistan with 19%, and the Kyrgyz Republic with 10%.
ADB also approved $12.49 million in technical
assistance.

Supporting Transition

Aconsiderable number of projects are helping support
transition to more market-friendly rural economies, where
economic growth has been slower, with much wider
support for farmers’ rights and with less state interference.

In Tajikistan, for example, ADB is assisting farm
reform and is implementing the Farm Debt Resolution
Strategy. This $15 million project will help the Tajikistan
government resolve cotton farm debt through an analysis
of a large number of indebted farms.

‘The technical assistance grant will also help
coordinate the activities of other agencies involved in the
country’s rural sector, including the World Bank, United
Nations Development Programme, and European Union.

ADB is helping Azerbaijan improve the last two
sections of its East-West Highway through a new loan
package of $52 million approved in late 2005. It is
improving a two-lane paved road on the Yevlakh—Ganja
and Qazakh-Georgian border, as well as local roads.

Improving Education

In the Kyrgyz Republic, ADB approved a $15.5 million
grant to help it deliver better basic education services to
children in poor areas.

In Uzbekistan, ADB lent $30 million to integrate
information and communications technology—including
computers and internet access—into basic education.
The project will directly benefit some 540,000 students

) GNV LSV4

cy
4
nw
S
2
3
a
S

    

Students at a computer class in Merv, Turkmenistan; information and
communication technology will equip them to land better jobs

in grades five to nine as well as 89,000 teachers in
predominantly poor, rural, and remote areas.

Uzbekistan invests substantially in its education
system and, indeed, all the Central Asian republics boast
high literacy rates. However, the systems are expensive
and based on Soviet values and the labor requirements of
acentrally planned economy, and are thus ill suited to
transitional economies.

Safe Drinking Water, Improved Health

Another project approved in 2005 will benefit around
250,000 rural residents in Uzbekistan, who will gain
access to safe drinking water and sanitation through
rehabilitation of dilapidated infrastructure in two
provinces, backed by a $25 million ADB loan. The project
will help improve living conditions and public health in
about 170 villages in Kashkadarya and Navoi provinces
through rehabilitating and upgrading piped water supply
systems, building public and school latrines, and
improving wastewater drainage. Some 12 subprojects will
be carried out covering clusters of up to 20 villages
comprising an integrated water supply system and
improved sanitation facilities.

Wide-ranging support also included a grant from the
Japan Fund for Poverty Reduction to help the region deal
with the serious problem of poor nutrition that is behind
the high incidence of cognitive dysfunction, birth defects,
and maternal and child mortality (see page 58).

59MEKONG

60

Cambodia, Lao People’s Democratic
Republic, Myanmar, Thailand,
Viet Nam

 

he Mekong River has always connected the
diverse peoples living in its watersheds, a
geographic constant in the face of trade links
often broken in the past by conflict. The

|| countries sharing its watersheds, however, are
now securing lasting ties amid growing economic prosperity.

Poverty in the Mekong countries has declined markedly
since 1990, when the incidence was close to 50%. Recent
estimates show national poverty levels ranging from 9.8%
in Thailand to 34.7% in Cambodia. Despite this reduction,
poverty remains a major development challenge.

In 2005, most Mekong countries grew strongly despite
high oil prices and the economic fallout from avian flu
(see page 38).

Cambodia registered remarkable growth estimated
at 8.4% in 2005, buoyed mainly by considerably stronger
agricultural production. New government legislation is
expected to have far-reaching, positive implications for
Cambodia’s private sector and for growth throughout the
economy.

‘The Law on Commercial Enterprises, which took effect
recently, eases business start-up by substantially reducing
the time and cost to register. Similarly helpful to private
businesses, the Law on Secured Transactions is likely to
reduce lending costs and increase bank intermediation, and
the Law on Concessions should improve the environment for
private participation in infrastructure projects. Both are
before the National Assembly awaiting approval.

The lungs of the Mekong, the waterways
of the Tonle Sap must be preservedMekong: Main Indicators, 2005

Real GDP Average Foreign
Poverty Growth Inflation Trade Direct
Rate Rate Rate Balance Investment
Country (%) (%) (%) ($ million) ($ million)
Cambodia 34.7? 8.4? 5.8 (1,033.5) ° 216.0
Lao PDR 32078 ee) eZ) (342.3) D7 le
Myanmar 26.6! 12.29 - 1221.7 7 Thailand 9.8! 4.5 4.5 (8,578.0) 3,288.9 ©
Viet Nam 19:52 8.4 8.3 (4,564.0) 1,914.0°

— no data available, () negative.
® Data as of 2004; ® Estimates; ‘Net basis; “Data as of 2002-2003; © Gross basis; ' Data as of 2001; 9 Fiscal year 2005 (April 2005-March 2006); " Fiscal year 2004 (April 2004—

MEKONG

March 2005); ' Data as of 2002.

Cambodia’s financial sector has made significant
progress since the Financial Sector Cluster program began
in 2001, with greater financial stability, increased financial
services, and indications of growing confidence in the sector.

‘The Lao PDR grew strongly in 2005, following on
healthy expansion in recent years that helped lower
poverty figures. The country is also making progress
toward the income and non-income MDGs. Inflation
slowed to 7.2% in 2005, while the trade and current
account balances remained in deficit.

Thailand posted growth of 4.5% in 2005, helped by
the favorable performance of the export sector and with
the effect of the December 2004 tsunami and drought
subsiding in the second half of the year. The country’s

fiscal situation remained solid, while business confidence
remained strong.

Viet Nam, a net exporter of oil, actually benefited
from the oil price rises. Oil prices aside, the country was
also spurred by an improving business environment.
Standout sectors included strong manufacturing, a diverse
agricultural base little influenced by avian flu, and
buoyant hotel and restaurant businesses, which grew by
15% during the year, thanks to a surge in tourism. A solid
expansion of private enterprise also boosted growth.

In Myanmar, ADB continues to monitor economic
developments, but a reliable assessment remains to be
made, depending on the availability of timely and
reliable data.

 

Major transport routes are being built to form the base of the subregion’s economic corridors that link production, trade, and investments

62Regional Cooperation

‘The Greater Mekong Subregion Economic Cooperation
Program (GMS Program) was established in 1992 with
ADB support. It promotes cooperation in nine sectors—
transportation, energy, telecommunications, human
resource development, tourism, environment, trade,
investment, and agriculture—and provides a means for
GMS members to reduce poverty. Member countries—
Cambodia, PRC, Lao PDR, Myanmar, Thailand, and
Viet Nam—have made steady progress toward greater
connectivity and improved competitiveness, resulting in
an increased sense of community in the Mekong subregion.
Initiatives aimed at addressing shared concerns, such as
those related to sustainable management of shared
natural resources and tackling health and social issues, are
also contributing to a more equitable and prosperous
subregion.

‘The GMS Program entered a new phase in 2005

as work on several economic transport corridors passed
milestones. Hundreds of kilometers of newly paved
roads, easier border crossings, and agreements to expand
trade are boosting livelihoods around the subregion.
By streamlining cross-border transport arrangements;
laying down modern roads, telecommunications, and
power links; and promoting tourism and investment,
GMS members are reducing poverty.

In 2005, five GMS loans and grants amounting to
$56 million and 24 technical assistance grants totaling
$39.2 million (including cofinancing) were approved.
Between 1992 and December 2005, ADB approved loans
totaling $1.8 billion and technical assistance grants
amounting to $67 million under the GMS Program.

GMS SUMMIT AND OTHER EVENTS
‘The Second GMS Summit of Leaders was held in
Kunming in July 2005. The successful conclusion of
the summit saw the issuance of the Kunming
Declaration: A Stronger GMS Partnership for Common
Prosperity, which embodied the subregional leaders’
strong commitment to the GMS Program, underscoring
the need for concerted effort to achieve the MDGs.
‘The Biodiversity Corridors Conservation Initiative,
launched by the GMS Ministers of Environment in
May 2005, was an important legacy of the summit.
Initiatives in the social and environment sectors
were also pursued more vigorously. These include
the prevention and control of infectious diseases,
training of civil servants under the Phnom Penh Plan
for Development Management, and the Core
Environment Program.

The 13 GMS Ministers’ Meeting, held in Vientiane
in December 2004, welcomed the inclusion of the
Guangxi Zhuang Autonomous Region of the PRC in the
GMS Program. Guangxi began participating in GMS
Program activities in 2005 and, during the year, ADB
assisted a study of how Guangxi could more rapidly link
with the rest of the GMS.

ECONOMIC CORRIDORS BOOST ECONOMIES
Reflective of the progress in 2005 on the projects under
way are the major transport routes that form the base of the
GMS economic corridors—the strategic concentrations of
infrastructure development linked to production, trade,
and investment. The transport corridors are at the core of
the 11 flagship programs of the GMS Program. The three
major economic corridors—the east-west, north-south, and
southern corridors—will provide the foundation for
significantly higher cross-border economic activity.

Along the newly upgraded 240-km highway between
Phnom Penh and Ho Chi Minh City, business is booming.
‘Traffic increased rapidly once the road improvements
were made.

 

Hundreds of kilometers of

newly paved roads, easier border
crossings, and agreements to
expand trade are boosting
livelihoods around the subregion

   

Under the GMS Program, the Mekong countries are simplifying
customs procedures to speed up border crossings

63©)
o)
i
=
ee

 

  

— eS =
i 2 = =

20 million in 2005

Progress on the East-West Economic Corridor is
indeed impressive. It stretches nearly 1,500 km from the
Andaman Sea in the west to the South China Sea in the
east. At Sepon, Savannakhet province, on the East-West
Economic Corridor, an Australian mining company has
made substantial investments. The development has
provided employment and other forms of livelihood to the
benefit of local villages.

EASIER BORDER CROSSINGS

‘The GMS Program is helping reduce nonphysical barriers to
the cross-border movement of people and goods through the
implementation of the Cross-Border Transport Agreement.
Formulated under the auspices of ADB technical assistance,
the agreement is a multilateral instrument designed to be
adopted by all GMS members. It covers in one document all
the relevant aspects of cross-border transport facilitation
including single-stop, single-window inspection; crossborder movement of people; transit traffic regime; and
exchange of commercial traffic rights.

In 2005, the GMS Program began implementing the
agreement at the Lao PDR-Viet Nam border of
Dansavanh—Lao Bao. Implementation will commence in
2006 at the borders of Bavet-Moc Bai, along the Phnom
Penh-Ho Chi Minh City highway; at Mukdahan-—
Savannakhet along the East-West Economic Corridor; and at
Aranyaprathet—Poipet between Thailand and Cambodia.
‘Trade is already on the rise in many parts of the subregion.

64

The Tomb of Emperor Tu Duc in Hue, Viet Nam, is one of the many tourist attractions in the GMS, where tourist arrivals totaled nearly

 

PROMOTING TOURISM, TELECOMS

‘To boost tourism, the GMS countries in 2005 launched
the long-term GMS Tourism Sector Strategy, which aims
to promote the subregion as a single destination.

‘They have begun to relax visa regimes, upgrade airports,
start training programs, and step up marketing efforts.
‘Tourist arrivals in the six countries in 2005 totaled
nearly 20 million, and these are expected to soar to

30 million by 2010.

In the telecommunications sector, meanwhile,
feasibility studies have been undertaken for establishing
a subregional network. Fiber-optic cable links are planned
for the missing portions of a backbone that will interconnect national networks in the subregion. Cooperation
will also focus on constructing an information superhighway network that will enhance the range of services
and applications based on subregional network facilities.

To boost tourism, the GMS
countries in 2005 launched the
long-term GMS Tourism Sector
Strategy, which aims to promote
the subregion as a single
destinationInitiative Protects Cambodia's Great Lake

enturies ago, Cambodia's
inhabitants mastered the
seasonal ebb and flow of
Southeast Asia’s largest
freshwater lake, maximizing rice
production and making possible the
wonder of the Angkor Kingdom.
Today, many Cambodians rely on the
Tonle Sap for fish to feed their
families and on its monsoon-fed
waters to irrigate their rice fields.

Under its Tonle Sap Initiative, ADB
is helping the Cambodian government put in place a plan to protect
the rich natural resource that
sustains so much of the nation.
Central to the initiative is a phased
sequence of core loans and grants
that will put in place an integrated
and basin-wide approach to dealing
with its problems.

The special characteristics of the
Tonle Sap Basin derive from the 100km long Tonle Sap River, which runs
into the Mekong River farther south
at the capital, Phnom Penh. During
the rainy season, the heavy flow of
the Mekong forces the Tonle Sap
River to reverse flow and head north,
filling the lake. This causes it to swell
from around 2,500 square kilometers to as much as 16,000 square
kilometers. Fish, birds, mammals,
and plants thrive in this hydrological
phenomenon.

The Tonle Sap supports one of
the most productive fisheries in the
world and provides most Cambodians with their main source of
protein. Its land, water, and biotic
resources directly benefit 40% of the
population of provinces adjoining
the lake and shore up food security
and employment elsewhere. The lake
is also of global significance for
biodiversity conservation.

Overexploitation of fisheries and
wildlife, conversion of the flooded
forest to agriculture, and collection
of wood for fuel are threats to this
balance. Widespread deforestation
in the watershed is destroying
habitats, impairing water and soil
quality, and increasing siltation rates.

Cambodia designated the Tonle
Sap a multiple-use protected area in

1993. The United Nations declared it
a biosphere reserve in 1997. In
2003, ADB finalized the Tonle Sap
Basin Strategy, giving geographical
focus to its country strategy and
program for 2005-2009 and its
annual updates. The development
objectives are to foster, promote,
and facilitate pro-poor sustainable
growth, access to assets, and
management of natural resources
and the environment.

Threats to the lake must be
considered from the perspective of

   

The Tonle Sap supports one of the
most productive fisheries in the world
and supplies protein to a majority of
Cambodians

the basin as a whole, but everything
cannot be tackled at the same time.
Interventions work from core areas
of the lake to its upper catchments
over an 8-year period, repeating this
cycle as may be needed to allow the
accomplishments and lessons
learned to be incorporated into
long-term protection for the
complex ecosystem.

As part of the initiative, in 2005,
ADB approved a grant for $18
million that will help provide safe
drinking water to more than
1 million people living around the
Tonle Sap River Basin.

The grant will help fund a project
that will provide rural water supply
and sanitation facilities to about
1,760 villages in five provinces
around the basin. It will also improve
sanitation for about 720,000 rural
people, train communities to take
responsibility for the facilities, and
conduct health and hygiene
awareness outreach.

ca
m
fe)
PB
a)

 

Fish, birds, mammals,
and plants thrive in
this hydrological
phenomenon

 

65To ensure that the GMS Program
proceeds along an environmentally
sustainable path, the member
countries endorsed in 2005 the
implementation of the Core
Environment Program, including
the Biodiversity Conservation
Corridors Initiative

  

o
ADB is coordinating with its development partners to help
poultry farmers control avian flu

 

SAFEGUARDING THE ENVIRONMENT
‘To ensure that the GMS Program proceeds along
an environmentally sustainable path, the member

2
z
(s
Z%
i
ea

WARDING OFF AVIAN INFLUENZA

‘To help stem the avian influenza threat in Asia and the

countries endorsed in 2005 the implementation of the
Core Environment Program, including the Biodiversity

Pacific, ADB has committed to another subregional Conservation Corridors Initiative. ADB approved its

 

initiative to encourage cooperation on infectious diseases. largest-ever regional technical assistance—about
A $30 million ADF grant, approved in 2005, will assist
Cambodia, Lao PDR, and Viet Nam in controlling the

spread of avian flu and other infectious diseases among

$25 million—to support the initiative, which aims at
environmental sustainability and social equity in the
Mekong Subregion toward increasing its development
vulnerable groups. ADB committed $18 million in 2005 potential, performance, and impact.

for Viet Nam, which was at the center of the avian flu

outbreak in 2005 (see page 38).

Mekong: ADB Lending by Country, 2004-2005
($ million)

66

Mekong: Cumulative ADB Lending by Country

0.00 100.00 200.00 300.00 400.00 500.00 600.00 700.00

as of end-2005 ($ million) Cambocia MIM, 959
Cambodia 850.24

Mm 27.70
Lao PDR 1,183.14 to FOR 70.00
Myanmar 530.86

2°.
Thailand 5,388.07 ern dai 577.70
Viet Nam 3.73237,

2004 2005
TOTAL 11,684.68

Myanmar and Thailand had no loans during the period,
Mekong: Approvals by Country, 2005 ($ million)
Grant-Financed Projects
Equity and Other. Technical

Country Loans Guarantees ADF IX Funds* Assistance Total
Cambodia 10.00 = 42.00 9.98 7.62 69.60
Lao PDR 70.00 50.00 16.00 1.50 3.02 140.52
Myanmar oa = = = = =
Thailand = = a = 3.35 3.35
Viet Nam 57710 a 25.64 0.90 12.25 616.49
TOTAL 657.70 50.00 83.64 12.38 26.24 829.96

— = nil, ADF = Asian Development Fund
2 Includes trust funds and externally financed grants.ADB Assistance

Helped by an ADB investment of about $800 million

in 2005, the Mekong countries continued to focus on
speeding up social and economic development as well
ance to these

 

as reducing poverty in the subregion. Assi
countries focused on providing the infrastructure needed
to boost economic growth and to reduce poverty, always in
cooperation with member governments and development
partners. Transport and energy-related projects accounted
for over three quarters of lending.

CAMBODIA: TONLE SAP INITIATIVE
During 2005, three loans/grants amounting to $43 million
were approved for Cambodia, including two exclusive grant

 

ance projects for rural water supply and sanitation

   

ae ee :
A new bridge across the Mekong at Mukdahan to Khanthabuly
Mekong: ADB Disbursements by Country will lessen dependence on ferries
2004-2005 ($ million)
0.00 50.00 100.00 150.00 200.00 250.00

—— a7 Mekong: Cumulative ADB Disbursements by

 

‘oo ron MN 48.49 Country as of end-2005 ($ million)
93.76
Cambodia 564.58
Thailand MI, 358° Lao PDR 905.76
ree Myanmar 411.83
_ 225.87 Thailand 4,183.05
Viet Nam 1,955.16
2004 2005

TOTAL 8,028.38

Myanmar had no disbursements during the period

Mekong: Public and Private Sector Loan Approvals by Country, 2005 ($ million)

Total Date
Country OcR ADF Total Project Cost? Approved
CAMBODIA
Financial Sector Program (Subprogram III) = 10.00 10.00 10.00 29 Sep
LAO PDR
Greater Mekong Subregion Nam Theun 2
Hydroelectric
— Private Sector Loan 50.00 - 50.00 1,450.00 4 Apr
— Public Sector Loan 20.00 = 20.00 4 Apr
VIET NAM
Preventive Health System Support = 27.90 27.90. 47.54 25 Aug
Support the Implementation of the - 15.00 15.00 225.00 3 Nov
Poverty Reduction Program II
Central Region Transport Networks = 94.50 94.50 138.00 11 Nov
Improvement Sector
Greater Mekong Subregion: = 6.00 6.00 8.00 19 Dec
Kunming-Haiphong Transport Corridor
Noi Bai-Lao Cai Highway
Technical Assistance
Central Region Water Resources = 74.30 74.30 99.00 19 Dec
Northern Power Transmission 360.00 = 360.00 452.70 21 Dec

Expansion Sector

— = Nil, ADF = Asian Development Fund, OCR = ordinary capital resources.
3 Total project cost includes financing by ADB, governments, borrowers, beneficiaries, and sub-borrowers; cofinancing from official, export credit, and
commercial sources; equity sponsors; and local participating private companies and financial institutions.

67MEKONG

Health Contracts Widen Access to Care

relatively low life expectancy, coupled with high
maternal mortality rate
and greater vulnerability
to contract HIV/AIDS, calls for
extensive and innovative efforts to
significantly improve the health
status of the Cambodian people.

The poor in Cambodia, when in
need of medical attention, may selftreat, call traditional healers, and
even flee before they ever seek
advice from government-run clinics.

“When | saw the health staff
come to my village ... | took my little
baby with me and hid in the bushes
behind the village,” says one mother
in the Memut district of Kampong
Cham province.

A government program that
contracts private organizations to
run and upgrade public health
services is changing that. Widespread success since the program
was begun in 1996, under a loan
now completed, has convinced
officials to expand contracting from
5 to 10 of the country’s 76 districts.
The second phase, ongoing in 2005,
was funded with a $20 million ADB
loan under the Health Sector
Support project and is due
for completion in 2007.

Under the contracting system,
use of public services has risen,
particularly among the poor. Average
out-of-pocket health costs have
plunged by over $30 per person for
the bottom half of the population
in some project districts.

Under the
contracting system,
use of public services
has risen among the
poor; average out-ofpocket health costs
have plunged by
over $30 per person

68

NGOs attract people in need of
care with cleaner clinics; predictable,
professional, and respectful service;
and successful treatment. They use
enforceable contracts, financial
incentives, user fees, and achievable
goals to motivate staff.

Overall care has improved for
numerous reasons, says HealthNet
International, one of the contracted
NGOs. Of critical importance was an
end to private practice among
public workers. Salaries were so low

 

 

Maternal care is improving and use o

public services is rising in clinics run by NGOs

in the government clinics—$10-30
per month—that health workers
had to seek other income. Many
openly sold their services outside
of the health centers and earned
10 times more than their official
salaries.

Salaries were raised to levels high
enough to get staff to dedicate
100% of their time to the public
system. Doctors and district
managers settled for salaries
between $120 and $180 per month.

   

 

|

(above); salaries were raised to levels high enough to get staff to dedicate 100% of their

time to the public system (below)($18 million) as well as sustainable livelihood in the Tonle
Sap Basin ($15 million). The third project, amounting to
$10 million in an ADF loan, was approved for a financial
sector program for the development of a market-based
financial system.

The Tonle Sap Initiative has made good progress
toward reversing threats to Southeast Asia’s largest
freshwater lake (see page 65). Cambodians also continued
to find better health care in efficient clinics run by NGOs
under new funding in a long-running project (see page 68).

‘The non-lending program (consisting of 14 technical
assistance activities), based on resources from the
‘Technical Assistance Special Fund, Japan Special Fund,
and other sources, amounted to $7.62 million during
2005, which included technical assistance for project
preparation as well as capacity building.

The 2005-2009 country strategy and program for
Cambodia was endorsed by the Board. A notable feature
of its preparation was the joint process undertaken
with World Bank, United Kingdom’s Department for
International Development, and United Nations agencies
concerned.

LAO PDR

 

HYDROPOWER

In April 2005, ADB approved a $20 million public sector
loan, a private sector loan of up to $50 million, anda
political risk guarantee of up to $50 million for the Nam
‘Theun 2 Hydroelectric Project. These were ADB’s first
private sector loan and first such guarantee in the Lao
PDR. It was also the second public-private partnership
in the Lao PDR power sector. Approval of the project
was a breakthrough in the Mekong subregion, making it
a public-private partnership model. It is part of an

 

international effort to supply 1,070 megawatts of power
to the Thai and Lao PDR markets.

During 2005, ADB also approved a $10 million
ADF grant for the Lao PDR to help provide safe and
reliable water supplies. The quality and reliability of
water supply services will be improved in about 12 small
towns in the country’s northern and central regions by
developing new water sources and constructing optimalsized water supply systems.

Complementing the loans and grants for the Lao
PDR are seven technical assistance grants amounting to
$3.0 million, which focused on project preparation and
capacity development in priority areas.

 

V
ADB continued to monitor economic development in
Myanmar during 2005. An operational strategy will be
formulated when appropriate. The last loan and technical

   

    

Aworker in a factory in the Lao Bao commercial area in the Lao PDR
(above); Thailand’s economy and relationship with ADB are entering
a new era (below)

 

69

S
m
ras
fe)
a
(a)MEKONG

 

 

structure needed to boost economic growth and to reduce poverty

assistance projects for Myanmar were approved in 1986
and 1987, respectively.

THAILAND: A NEW ERA

‘The opening of the Thailand Resident Mission in 2005
marked a new chapter in the country’s long-standing
relationship with ADB. Discussions with the government
ona partnership framework are ongoing to define areas

of collaboration on national and regional programs.

Asa middle-income country, Thailand recognizes
the critical role of infrastructure for sustainable economic
growth and increased competitiveness. ADB is prepared
to work closely with the government to support its
“megaprojects” infrastructure investment program.

Cooperation on Dam Generates Power

onstruction of the Nam
Theun 2 hydroelectric
dam, so far the largest
foreign investment in the
Lao PDR, has started. It is also one of
the largest GMS projects and
exemplifies the benefits not only of
regional cooperation in the Mekong
but also of the potential for tapping
private sector strengths through
partnership with public sector groups.

Thailand will buy up to 95% of the
1,070 megawatts to be generated,
and the Lao PDR government will use
the dividends, taxes, and royalties for
its development program.

With funding from 27 international institutions—including public
and private sector loans and a
political risk guarantee from ADB—
the Nam Theun 2 Power Company
Limited will build the project, the
total base cost of which is estimated
at $1.25 billion.

Consultations leading up to the
project were broad, deep, and
frequent. The people living near
the project began providing inputs
to planning in 1996, and were
consulted in several hundred
public meetings and information
exchanges throughout the area.
Planners also held consultations in
Bangkok, Tokyo, Paris, Washington
DC, and Vientiane with international
groups concerned about the project,
whose views were taken into
account in the design.

   

The Nam Theun 2 project illustrates the potential for tapping private sector strengths
through partnership with public sector groups

Thailand will buy up to 95% of the 1,070 megawatts to be generated, and the Lao PDR
government will use the dividends, taxes,

and royalties for its development program

Environmental concerns were also
clearly established. For example, with
funding from the company, the
project will help preserve the Nakai
Nam Theun National Protected Area,
one of Southeast Asia's few
remaining intact tropical rainforests.

It also features a program for
transparent monitoring and

evaluation, including the publication
of performance evaluations,
progress reports, and data monitoring. Furthermore, the obligations of
the company relating to social and
environmental mitigation or compensatory measures are detailed in the
safeguard documents and clearly set
out in binding agreements.Jonsistent with the government’s efforts to increase
the size, depth, and liquidity of Thailand’s capital market,
ADB issued a debut 4 billion baht ($102.5 million), 5-year
bond in the country’s domestic bond market in May 2005.

‘Thailand has always been an integral partner of ADB
in the GMS Program. Additionally, new opportunities are
sa regional
development partner. ADB and Thailand are involved ina

 

being explored for expanding Thailand’s role

number of initiatives to promote further development of
Asian bond markets. Collaboration will strengthen cooperation and deepen economic integration across the region.
No new loans have been made to Thailand since
tance grants
amounting to $3.35 million were approved in 2005.
‘These included three tsunami-related technical
as

  

 

2000. However, seven technical a

 

t in post-tsunami support

 

tance operations to ai
istance—Infrastructure

 

activities. Another technical
Investment Advisory Assistance to the Public Debt
Management Office of Thailand—aims to t the
government in evaluating various mechanisms and

 

options for integrating the urban mass rail transport
system in Bangkok.

 

RING UP

In 2005, ADB approved $577.7 million in loans,

$26.5 million in grants, and $12.3 million in technical
assistance, for a total of $616.5 million. A $95.0 million
loan and grant package approved in November 2005

will improve 1,200 km of roads and help boost economic
growth in the central provinces. It will rehabilitate roads

Demand for electricity in Viet Nam has grown by at least 15% per year in the last 10 years, but supply has not always kept pace

S
m
ras
fe)
a
(a)

 

and, in selected rural districts, raise them to all-weather
condition. The improved roads will increase the efficiency

 

with which people can move and goods can be traded, and
the project will help improve access to markets, jobs, and
social services.
Viet Nam will also be a beneficiary of a loan
($27.9 million) and grant package ($10.1 million) totaling
$38.0 million to strengthen the country’s preventive
health system. Specifically, the project will help combat
communicable and emerging lifestyle diseases
Non-lending
of 20 technical assistance grants amounting to
$12.3 million for 2005, constituted an important element
toward project preparation as well as capacity building.
An OCR loan for $360 million, approved in
December 2005, will construct and expand power

 

istance in Viet Nam, consisting

 

 

transmission lines and substations in the northern part of
the country. The project will improve reliability, remove
s, and

 

transmission bottlenecks, reduce transmission loss

 

promote more efficient use of power plants. Demand for
electricity in Viet Nam has grown by about 15% per year
in the last 10 years, but supply has not always kept pace.

 

71PACIFIC

72

 

 

Cook Islands, Fiji Islands, Kiribati,
Marshall Islands, Federated States
of Micronesia, Nauru, Palau,
Papua New Guinea, Samoa,
Solomon Islands, Timor-Leste,
Tonga, Tuvalu, Vanuatu

oO

x WB: area covered by ADB’s Pacific operations is

Wy svast. Just one country alone, Kiribati, spans

nearly 6,000 km from east to west. Most

of the region’s island nations are remote, have

small populations, and face a peculiar set of
developmental challenges as a result.

‘The economic performance of most Pacific countries
has improved in the past 2-3 years, following variable but
often weak or negative economic growth in the preceding
decade. On average, economic growth in the Pacific
countries weakened slightly in 2005 compared with the
previous year. Real GDP expanded on average by 2.7%—down
from 3.1% in 2004—and was barely enough to keep ahead of
regional population growth, which was 2.4% in 2004.

However, the average conceals significant variations
among the Pacific countries, including in the key factors
affecting growth prospects and performance. High oil prices,
for example, continued to weigh heavily on most Pacific
economies in 2005, although higher global commodity
prices for exports offset these in several countries.

In Papua New Guinea and Timor-Leste, higher oil
prices in 2005 were clearly beneficial, given the importance
of petroleum exports to both countries. In Papua New
Guinea, existing oil projects were expanded, while
agreements were secured with an Australian aluminum
refinery and a gas wholesaler for a proposed gas pipeline.

As of end-December 2005, Timor-Leste government
deposits held abroad by the Banking and Payments
Authority totaled $506 million, including $370 million
in the Petroleum Fund.PACIFIC

Pacific: Main Indicators, 2005

Real GDP Average

Poverty Growth Inflation Trade

Rate* Rate Rate’ Balance®
Country (%) (%) (%) ($ million)
Cook Islands 12.09 3.0 17. 32.0
Fiji Islands Bob. 1.7 2.4 (867.0)
Kiribati 50.09 0.3 25 (43.0)
Marshall Islands 20.0 '9 35 35 (69.0)
Micronesia, Federated States of 27.94 1.0 25) (130.0)
Nauru = aa = aa
Palau 23/0" 5.5 3.0 Papua New Guinea 53.8 3.0 ie 1,464.0
Samoa 20.3 S22) 8.0 =
Solomon Islands - 4.4 6.9 (40.0)
Timor-Leste 39.7! 2.5. 1.8 (204.0)
Tonga 223) 2.5 8.0 (90.0)
Tuvalu 29.3! 2.0 2.8 Vanuatu 40.0* Bu 2.6 (86.0)

—no data available, (_) negative.

* Data are for 2002, except for the Fiji Islands (2003) and Papua New Guinea (2005); ® Data are as of March for Tonga and refer to year-end inflation for Fiji Islands, Marshall
Islands, Papua New Guinea, and Tuvalu; for Kiribati, 2004; © Data for Fiji Islands, Kiribati, Palau, Papua New Guinea, and Solomon Islands are as of 2004; 21998 Household
Income and Expenditure Survey (HIES) data; * 1990/91 HIES; $1-a-day benchmark; 9 1999 census data; 1998 estimate; ' Based on the 2001 Timor-Leste Living Standard
Measurement Survey; / Based on 1994 HIES data; * Calculated from the 1998 HIES $1-a-day benchmark.

Of the 14 countries, growth in 2005 GDP was strong
in Palau (5.5%), Samoa (5.5%), Solomon Islands (4.4%),
and Marshall Islands (3.5%). Vanuatu (3.1%), Cook
Islands (3%), Timor-Leste (2.5%), and Tonga (2.5%) grew
modestly, with ‘Tuvalu expanding by 2%, and Federated
States of Micronesia by 1%. Kiribati (0.3%) experienced
the region’s lowest growth. No figures were available for
Nauru.

Papua New Guinea, the region’s largest economy
with 49.2% of regional GDP, grew by 3% in 2005, similar
to 2004’s 2.9%. Excluding gold production, all sectors of
the economy expanded, with agriculture particularly
strong. Palm oil and copra benefited from high world
prices. The country’s economy has improved greatly in
recent years, as reflected in a buildup of foreign reserves,
fiscal consolidation, a stable exchange rate, and much
lower interest rates and inflation.

GDP growth slowed in the Fiji Islands to 1.7% in
2005 after 4.1% in 2004, as the region’s second largest
economy faced significant adjustment pressures. Fiscal
deficits continue to be moderately large, and the textile
and sugar sectors are under considerable pressure,
reflecting reductions in preferential trade advantages
in Australia and the European Union (see page 79).

In Vanuatu, growth was 3.1% compared with 4.2%
in 2004 and -4.7% in 2003, led by agriculture, forestry,
and the fishing sectors.

‘Throughout the region in 2005, tourism remained
a significant income source; it has grown substantially
in recent years, supported by a consumer shift to safer

74

destinations, improved country and regional marketing,
and structural reforms that are allowing low-cost air
carriers to enter the market. In the Fiji Islands, tourist
arrivals increased by 6% in the first 8 months of 2005;
Palau broke its 2004 visitor arrivals record; and the Cook
Islands enjoyed a rise in arrivals, shaking off the
destruction of the March cyclones.

Inflation decreased a bit in the region, although it
remained slightly high in Samoa, Solomon Islands,
and Tonga.

Regional Cooperation

Each Pacific country is unique, but they also face
common challenges related to high transport and other
transaction costs, limited human resources and weak
institutional capacities, governance difficulties, and
narrowly based economies vulnerable to natural disasters
and external shocks.

Throughout the region in 2005,
tourism remained a significant
income source; it has grown
substantially in recent years,
supported by a consumer shift
to safer destinationsRegional cooperation and integration can help the
Pacific countries minimize constraints and expand
economic opportunities. They can gain economies of
scale and improve governance, for example, by building
regional institutional capacity that complements
national strengths. A regional approach can also expand
access to labor markets, including to larger neighboring
countries, and can be part of an important strategy for
increasing economic opportunities.

In 2005, heads of government of the Pacific Islands
Forum reinvigorated Pacific regionalism by approving the
Pacific Plan for Strengthening Regional Cooperation and
Integration. ADB preceded the initiative with the report
Toward a New Pacific Regionalism and supported the effort
with technical assistance. Published jointly by ADB and
the Commonwealth Secretariat, the report provided
Forum island countries with a timely analysis of major
issues and opportunities for Pacific regionalism, and
recommended several initiatives that were later adopted
under the Pacific Plan.

SAFER SKIES

Aviation safety and security is one area where the benefits
of Pacific regional cooperation have been clearly
demonstrated. Under an ADB loan and technical
assistance grant package totaling $1.95 million approved
in 2005 and the first ever made directly to a regional
organization, ADB is helping Cook Islands, Fiji Islands,
Kiribati, Papua New Guinea, Samoa, Solomon Islands,
and Vanuatu establish the Pacific Aviation Safety Office.

Pacific: Approvals, 2005 ($ million)

Country

Cook Islands 2.83
Fiji Islands
Kiribati =
Marshall Islands =
Micronesia, Federated States of Nauru =
Palau =
Papua New Guinea =
Samoa 8.06
Solomon Islands =
Timor-Leste a
Tonga =
Tuvalu =
Vanuatu =
Regional 1.50

TOTAL

~ = nil, ADF = Asian Development Fund.
® Includes trust funds and externally financed grants.

 

ADB established the Aviation Safety Office under its first-ever loan to
a regional organization

The office will help the region meet international
aviation requirements by providing safety and security
inspections, and technical assistance to airlines, airports,
and civil aviation authorities.

‘The ADB loan will establish the office in its new
headquarters in Port Vila, Vanuatu, while the grant will
finance regulatory and legislative harmonization and
update the certification of airlines. The office will
standardize the operating environment across member
countries and support implementation of the Pacific
Islands Civil Aviation Safety and Security Treaty.

The regional approach adopted will reduce costs to

Grant-Financed Projects

Other Technical

ADF IX Funds® Assistance Total
= ee 0.60 3.43

= = 1.60 26.60

= = 0.30 0.30

Ss = 0.48 0.48
0.00 ss 215 215
17.20 0.65 25-91

a = 1.10 1.10
10.00 = 1.20 11.20
= = 0.70 0.70
8.00 = 6.24 15.74
18.00 17.20 15.02 87.61

75PACIFIC

governments, airlines, and airport operators, and the office
will become financially self-sustaining through service fees.

FIGHTING HIV/AIDS

A regional approach can also help better equip the Pacific
in the fight against HIV/AIDS. Many small Pacific
nations share a vulnerability to the disease because of low
condom use, high mobility, and various cultural and
sexual taboos. Reported contraceptive use averages around
30-35% in most Pacific countries. At the same time,
many of the region’s health care systems have trouble
ensuring safe blood supplies, have a poor record for
treating other sexually transmitted infections, and do not
provide adequate counseling or testing for HIV/AIDS.

At the end of 2005, Papua New Guinea was the only
Pacific country considered to have an HIV epidemic,
with cases estimated between 23,000 and 90,000 in the
15-45 age group, or about 2% prevalence.

In 10 countries in the region—Cook Islands, Kiribati,
Marshall Islands, Federated States of Micronesia, Nauru,

Pacific: Cumulative ADB Lending as of end-2005
($ million)

Cook Islands 29.50
Fiji Islands 249.90
Kiribati 15.14
Marshall Islands 78.13
Micronesia, Federated States of 75.14
Nauru 5.00
Palau =
Papua New Guinea 873.99
Samoa 129.98
Solomon Islands 79.31
Timor-Leste =
Tonga S179
Tuvalu 7.82
Vanuatu 51.25
Regional 1250:
TOTAL 1,654.45

Samoa, Solomon Islands, Tonga, Tuvalu, and Vanuatu—
the reported incidence of HIV/AIDS was over 120 cases in
2005, although the real number may be considerably
higher because of less than adequate surveillance systems.

Under an $8 million ADF grant approved in 2005,
ADB will help improve the management and delivery of
HIV/AIDS programs by strengthening surveillance and
supporting community prevention in the 10 countries.
‘The project will help countries develop the skills to
identify risk factors and vulnerable sectors of the
population, design surveillance programs, and improve
laboratory work and data collection.

Community assistance will include social marketing
programs for condoms, launch events, peer education,
and campaigns to influence and change sexual behavior.
The project will increase facilities for diagnosing sexual
diseases, and will help fund 20 clinics in the 10 countries.

Educational materials on HIV/AIDS and other
sexually transmitted infections will be available at
drop-in centers to provide information to vulnerable

Pacific: ADB Lending by Country, 2004-2005
($ million)
0.00 10.00 20.00 30,00

Cook Islands 2.83
Fiji Islands 25
soc) i 1:
Federated States of
Papua New Gunes I 0.01

Samoa 8.06

Twalu 197

BH 2004 2005

Kiribati, Marshall Islands, Nauru, Palau, Solomon Islands, Timor-Leste, Tonga, and Vanuatu
had no loans during the period,

Pacific: Public and Private Sector Loan Approvals, 2005 ($ million)

Country OCR

COOK ISLANDS

Cyclone Emergency Assistance =
FUL ISLANDS

Alternative Livelihoods Development
SAMOA

Education Sector II =
REGIONAL

Establishment of the Pacific Aviation Safety Office 
25.00

ADF = Asian Development Fund, OCR = ordinary capital resources.

Total Date
ADF Total Project Cost? Approved
2.83 2.83 7.87 30 Jun
= 25.00 49.78 28 Mar
8.06 8.06 30.00 16 Dec
1.50 1.50 2.10 22 Sep

® Total project cost includes financing by ADB, governments, borrowers, beneficiaries, and sub-borrowers; cofinancing from official, export credit, and commercial
sources; equity sponsors; and local participating private companies and financial institutions

76HIV/AIDS programs will be improved by strengthening surveillance
and supporting community prevention in 10 Pacific countries (above);
vulnerable communities, such as seafarers, will be targeted (right)

communities such as seafarers. There will also be special
training on health issues at regional maritime schools as
well as for NGOs working with vulnerable groups.

For HIV-positive people, the project will provide
skills training for livelihoods and fund antiretroviral drug
treatments. Education campaigns will hopefully reduce
high-risk behavior.

Papua New Guinea, because of the scale of its HIV
challenge, is receiving targeted country-level assistance,
with an ADF grant being prepared.

ADB Assistance

ADB provides a range of services to its Pacific DMCs, with
lending and grant operations supplemented by extensive
technical assistance, analytical work, and policy advice.

Pacific: Cumulative ADB Disbursements by Country
as of end-2005 ($ million)

Cook Islands 26.15
Fiji Islands 160.56
Kiribati 13.55
Marshall Islands 62,99
Micronesia, Federated States of 36.78
Nauru 2.30
Palau 0.00
Papua New Guinea 634.01
Samoa 102.66
Solomon Islands 57.91
Timor-Leste 0.00
Tonga 52.26
Tuvalu 4.26
Vanuatu 48.99
TOTAL 1,203.42

 

Priorities are determined by matching country needs with
key result areas identified in ADB’s Pacific Strategy for
2005-2009, which began implementation in 2005.

‘Total ADB assistance to the subregion was
$73.4 million. Four loans and two grant projects approved
by ADB for the Pacific in 2005 highlight the diversity of
the countries and the challenges facing the subregion.
Valued at $63.1 million, they address the need for
agriculture sector restructuring and alternative livelihoods
for sugar farmers in the Fiji Islands (see page 79), a multidonor education sector partnership in Samoa (see page
80), cyclone recovery in Cook Islands, grant financing for
national roads in post-conflict Timor-Leste, and regional
cooperation for aviation safety and HIV/AIDS prevention.

ADB updated its strategy and program for three
countries during 2005: Federated States of Micronesia,

Pacific: ADB Disbursements by Country
2004-2005 ($ million)

0.00 5.00 10.00 15.00 20.00 25.00
mics
Cook Islands Ve
Fiji sland; A 9.55

Mm 24
Kiribati 1.56

14,07

Marshall islands Mill, 1-64

Micronesia, Ml 1.11
Federated States of 1.75

Pap New Gi TT | 19:2

ME 28
Samoa tee

0.86
2

215

a
Solomon Islands He

Tuvalu ie 08

Wl 2004 2005

Nauru, Palau, Timor-Leste, Tonga, and Vanuatu had no disbursements during the period.

aePACIFIC

Support Holds Back Rising Tides

ing tides, storm surges,

and severe cyclones are

part of life for Pacific

islanders, particularly for
those living on the region’s many
thousands of low-lying atolls.
Adapting to severe weather is a
well-scripted routine learned over
the millennia.

However, these normal events
are becoming abnormally frequent
due to global warming, many
scientists now claim.

ADB is helping Asian and Pacific
countries prepare for climate

ADB is helping Asian
and Pacific countries
prepare for climate
change through
“adaptation”

Papua New Guinea, and Timor-Leste. ADB also approved

change through “adaptation”
projects under the Renewable
Energy, Energy Efficiency, and
Climate Change Program.

The Climate Change Adaptation
Program in the Pacific, for example,
is aiming to climate-proof six
infrastructure projects in the
Federated States of Micronesia and
Cook Islands. The program, funded
by the Canadian Cooperation Fund
for Climate Change, has designed
adaptation measures and helped

provide the institutional and human

resource capacity to carry them out.
The effort addresses economic,

financial, technical, and legal issues,

plus social and environmental
dimensions.

In the Federated States of
Micronesia, the project identified
cost-effective adaptation measures
in the Sapwohn coastal community
in Pohnpei. A Kosrae road project
was put on hold until funds were

made available to climate-proof the

road during construction. Estimates
suggested that spending the money
early for “climate proofing” would
save roughly 11% in costs due to
lower maintenance and repair.

   

Coastal areas are being made safer with
climate proofing

Strengthening partnerships is increasingly important

$15 million for 24 technical assistance grants, including
significant new regional assistance. Improving ADB’s
project and technical assistance portfolio performance in
the Pacific was a major focus in 2005, with the number
of active technical assistance operations substantially
decreased to improve focus, and loan projects judged to
be “at risk” reviewed and either managed for better
performance or closed.

The year 2005 was significant for publishing—
in its Pacific Studies Series—the outcomes of ADB’s
economic, sector, and thematic analytical work.
Economic studies included a country economic
assessment for the Federated States of Micronesia and
studies on the roles of remittances, trust funds, and
business development services in the Pacific. Thematic
studies published covered Pacific regionalism and
“climate proofing”—a risk-based approach for adapting
to climate change (see box). An ADB education and
training sector strategy was also released, and private
sector assessments for the Fiji Islands and Solomon
Islands were posted on ADB’s website and widely
disseminated in those countries.

78

to ADB’s effectiveness in the Pacific. ADB resident
missions in the subregion are enhancing dialogue and
responsiveness to member countries, while improving
coordination and advancing harmonization with
development partners are also a high priority. The Samoan
education sector offers just one example of the new ways
of doing business. In addition, ADB has consciously
upgraded its relations with two key Pacific regional
organizations: the Pacific Islands Forum Secretariat and
the Secretariat of the Pacific Community.

ENCOURAGING THE PRIVATE SECTOR

Improving the environment for the private sector so it

can lead to economic growth is one of three main goals of
ADB’s Pacific Strategy for 2005-2009. Business success
stories exist in some Pacific countries, but on the whole
policies and institutions for private sector development
are unfriendly to business and job creation. In many cases,
state activity crowds out private business, exacerbates
the problems of geographic isolation, and harms economic
growth. Development partners have sometimes
unwittingly contributed to this situation.Loan Sows New Opportunity

he Fiji Islands’ sugar
industry, at the core of its
economy for over a century,
is in sharp decline, jeopardizing the livelihoods of many
thousands of farmers and workers.

The Fiji Islands’ economy floated
on high sugar returns for many
years, but favored treatment
insulated growers from the need for
improvements. The industry is now
plagued by high costs and low yields
that stem from antiquated sugar
mills and inefficient infrastructure.
These leave it in poor shape to cope
with world competition as the
European Union reduces longstanding subsidies on much of the
country’s crop, in accordance with
World Trade Organization rules.

This dire situation is exacerbated
by the anticipated expiry of some
10,300 farm leases over the next
25 years, which will likely cause
hardship both for experienced
farmers leaving the sugar industry
and for new farmers entering with
limited capital and experience.

In anticipation of the difficulties
now being faced by the Fiji Islands’
sugar farmers, ADB in March 2005
approved a $25 million loan to help
cushion the impact through support
of viable livelihood alternatives and
by promoting agricultural diversification.

The Alternative Livelihoods
Development project targets 8,000
sugarcane farmers as well as cutters,
mill workers, and landowners,
including women, in the sugarcane
belt of the western and northern
divisions on the main islands of Viti
Levu and Vanua Levu. It will promote

Improving conditions for private sector development

agricultural diversification, better
agricultural services, and effective
public-private sector partnerships in
commercial agriculture communities,
offering farm households opportunities for substantially higher
incomes. The project will also
improve about 600 km of farm roads
to provide farming communities
with better access to markets.

In addition, it will encourage offfarm livelihoods by promoting the
development of small and microenterprises and supporting vocational training. It will also strengthen
rural financial services in areas poorly
served by commercial banks.

“It's very hard for us to manage,” says
Roshni Chand (middle), whose husband
Ramesh earns $3.50 a day

In anticipation of the difficulties now being
faced by the Fiji Islands’ sugar farmers,
ADB in March 2005 approved a $25 million
loan to help cushion the impact

ADB has sought to raise the profile and elevate the

 

 

 

was therefore a major focus of ADB’s Pacific operations in
2005, building on the knowledge gained from private
sector assessments to better understand the problems of

discussion of private sector development issues in
individual countries and regionally. Private sector
development road maps were formulated and used to

private business in the Pacific. Having consolidated the sharpen country and strategy program updates and to

 

common issues under a regional assessment—Swvmming strengthen ADB’s portfolio of private sector development
Against the Tide: An Assessment of the Private Sector in the

Pacific—which helped shape ADB’s new Pacific Strategy,

projects, technical assistance, and analytic work.
Private sector assessments have proved to be a

79PACIFIC

Samoa Builds Its Knowledge Base

DB is supporting a joint
government and development partner program of
improvements in the
Samoan educational system with an
$8 million ADF loan and a technical
assistance grant of $350,000,
approved in 2005.
Although Samoa has high levels
of school enrollment and has

curriculum is 25 years old, and many

teachers lack in-service training,

as well as teaching and learning

materials. Samoa also needs a more

effective student assessment system.
The ADB loan is integral to a

$30 million program financed by the

Australian Agency for International

Development, New Zealand Agency

for International Development, and

and to provide better schools,
learning materials, and teaching
methods. The program will help
about 40,000 primary students get
better education, targeting schools
with many pupils at risk.

Project partners are developing
harmonized approaches in support of
Samoa’s own systems to ease the
transaction costs of the program and

achieved gender equity, maintaining
the quality of education is a critical
challenge. More than half of fourthyear Samoan students in 2003 fell
short of basic English language
standards, and about 71% of 6-year
students were deficient in basic
mathematics. Samoa’s primary school

Better schools,
learning materials,
and teaching
methods will help
40,000 students

powerful tool for engagement with governments.
Increasingly, private sector organizations are using them
as a basis for their contributions to policy formulation and
policy dialogue with governments.

The financial sector was one key area that passed
substantial milestones in 2005. Samoa, for example, has
followed up financial sector reforms by establishing a
credit reference bureau, a key step in making credit more
available to business. In Vanuatu, a national task force on
policy, legal, and regulatory frameworks for rural and
microfinance was established to build on recent successes
in rural microfinance provision. Significant successes were
also achieved in microfinance operations in Papua New
Guinea, Timor-Leste, and Vanuatu, with Papua New
Guinea’s recently established Wau Microbank attaining
operational financial self-sufficiency in 2005.

While individual countries were the primary focus of
ADB’s private sector engagement in the Pacific, 2005 also

saw substantial progress in regional technical assistance

 

activities to promote reform across countries. One

80

government of Samoa to improve the
curriculum and student assessments

   

An ADB loan is helping Samoa update a 25-ye
standards of education; maintaining quality is critical

ensure it remains responsive to
Samoan needs and priorities.

Id school curriculum to raise basic

initiative, Improving the Legal Business Environment in
the Pacific Region, is working to promote efficiency and
reduce risk, uncertainty, and transaction costs for private
businesses through updated companies laws and
associated regulations. Diagnostic Studies for Secured
‘Transaction Reforms in the Pacific Region is developing
road maps for promoting secured financial transactions,
as well as funding selected analytic work on financial
sector issues. Improving Delivery of Infrastructure
Services, approved in 2005, aims to promote publicprivate partnerships, regional cooperation, and cost and
delivery efficiencies in providing infrastructure services—
water, power, telecommunications, and transport.

AT THE MERCY OF NATURE

Between 4 February and 8 March 2005, five cyclones
ripped across the Cook Islands. The storms, four of them
in the maximum category 5, tore up public infrastructure,
businesses, and private homes, with potential long-term
harmful effects.Je Ft y .
Timor-Leste is rebuilding its roads, port facilities, bridges, and power
infrastructure, restoring normalcy to the country—and providing jobs

To help recovery, ADB approved a $2.83 million loan
in June for restoring basic social services and economic
activities, covering part of the economic damage,
estimated at about $7.9 million. The governments of
Australia and New Zealand will cover 17% of the
projected total cost, equivalent to $1.16 million, while
the government of the Cook Islands will take up the rest.

The project includes cleanup efforts, reinstatement
of infrastructure and basic services, and restoration of
essential materials and supplies related to roads, ports,
power and water supply, waste management, and
buildings.

‘These storms are a reminder of the vulnerability of
many Pacific countries to severe weather. ADB’s work in
2005 identified several successful approaches to preparing
for climate change by “climate proofing” Pacific
infrastructure under the Climate Change Adaptation
Program in the Pacific (see page 78). To help implement
this approach, the Cyclone Emergency Assistance project
also included a technical assistance grant—Strengthening
Disaster Management and Mitigation—to prepare
disaster management strategies to cope with severe
weather caused by global warming, and a master plan for
developing environmentally sustainable infrastructure.

POST-CONFLICT INFRASTRUCTURE

In September 2005, ADB approved the first ADF IX grant
to Timor-Leste of $10 million for the Road Sector
Improvement project. The project will rehabilitate

about 123 km of important roads in isolated rural areas
with insecure food supplies. These roads have the

   

The Post-Conflict Emergency
Rehabilitation project has provided
a highly visible peace dividend

for the people of two main islands
in Solomon Islands

potential for industrial and port development and for
international trade.

The project also incorporates gender design features
aimed at ensuring women’s involvement in project
activities, including rehabilitation and maintenance of
selected roads, community empowerment initiatives for
sustainable rehabilitation, road safety, and prevention of
the risks of HIV/AIDS.

At the same time, the Timor-Leste government
continued with road sector reforms in 2005 by creating
the Road Fund in the National Road Authority to
efficiently fund and implement routine maintenance
starting in 2006. This reform was possible through ADB’s
policy dialogue in the sector.

In Solomon Islands in 2005, the Post-Conflict
Emergency Rehabilitation project has provided a highly
visible peace dividend for the people of two main islands,
rehabilitating vital roads, bridges, local administration
centers, and water supplies. The goal is to reinstate access
to markets and social services affected by years of conflict
and political instability. Recognizing the primary
importance of this infrastructure to economic and social
recovery in Solomon Islands, Australia and New Zealand
have recently committed funds for an extension of the
project and are working with ADB to prepare a long-term
road rehabilitation program.

WEB KIOSK SPREADS ADB’S MESSAGE
In June 2005, ADB celebrated the first anniversary of
its South Pacific Subregional Office in Suva, Fiji Islands,
by launching a public access information kiosk and
website. The new office provides additional ADB capacity
and responsiveness to the needs of Pacific clients.
It undertakes country programming, economic analysis,
and project administration for Cook Islands, Fiji Islands,
Samoa, Tonga, and Tuvalu.

Designed to provide better information services
to the public, the kiosk will offer users free access to
downloads of ADB’s website, including the new
subregional office web pages, and ADB studies and
reports on the Asia and Pacific region.

81ES
Ee
S
=)
[e)
val

 

82

Afghanistan, Bangladesh,
Bhutan, India, Maldives, Nepal,
Pakistan, Sri Lanka

any South Asian countries have an

unparalleled opportunity now to reduce

poverty as never before. Buoyant

economies combined with policy changes

in the region are laying the foundations
for sustained growth that can lift millions out of poverty.

The regional economy grew a robust 7.8% in 2005,
helped by strong growth in India and Pakistan. South Asia
is benefiting from further integration into an expanding
global economy, rising consumer spending, generally
accommodative monetary policies, and market liberalization. Still, 30% of the subregion’s 1.4 billion people live on
less than $1 a day.

Growth in India was impressive at 7.5% in 2004-2005
and reached 8.1% in 2005-2006. The government is
initiating several measures to address the constraints to
high growth in a comprehensive manner. These measures
will help in upgrading infrastructure, providing stronger
institutions and better policy, encouraging private
investment, and improving agricultural growth.

Meeting the funding needs for infrastructure will
require strong participation from the private sector, in
partnership with the public sector. Foreign direct investment can be a means of bridging the gap between India’s
huge investment requirement and domestic savings, but
a lot more needs to be done to attract those investors.

Overall, high and volatile oil prices remain a major risk,
with India depending on imports for 70% of its oil needs.
‘The rapid rise in international crude prices has not been

India’s economy is booming, and

with ADB's help, development assistance
irre] om cse-rolali ave maT Ce] -It-tecrml or-Tad(@6] VAN]
through infrastructure projectsSOUTH ASIA

South Asia: Main Indicators,? 2005

Real GDP Average Foreign

Poverty Growth Inflation Trade Direct
Rate Rate Rate Balance Investment
Country (%) (%) (%) ($ million) ($ million)
Afghanistan 53.0 13.8 10.0 (2,515.0) 253.0
Bangladesh 49.8 5.6 6.5 (3,297.0) 776.0
Bhutan 2573) 8.8 4.8 (225.0) 9.0
India 26.1 8.1 4.5 (59,342.0) 3,240.0
Maldives ZO (535) 33) (494.0) 13.0
Nepal 31.0 2.3 4.5 (978.0) 12.0
Pakistan 32.1 8.4 on (4,515.0) 1,459.0
Sri Lanka 22.6 Sf 11.6 (2,690.0) 261.0

() negative.

* Where 2005 data are unavailable, data for the latest year have been provided.

completely passed on to consumers, however, and inflation
was contained at a moderate 4.5% in 2005.

In Pakistan, GDP expanded by 8.4% in 2005, its
highest rate in 3 decades and the third consecutive year
of strong growth. Manufacturing surged 12.5%, backed by
a 9-year high in agricultural growth, at 7.5%. Good weather,
easier credit, and greater access to fertilizer benefited
farmers. Inflation rose sharply to 9.3%, however, pushed up
by expensive energy and high consumer demand, while the
balance-of-payments current account turned into a deficit
of $4.5 billion, ending a 4-year surplus.

In Bangladesh, the economy was buoyant, as GDP
expanded by 5.6%, helped by steady expansion in industry
and services. However, insufficient pass-through of the
increase in international oil prices to domestic consumers
resulted in huge losses in the state-owned Bangladesh
Petroleum Corporation, amounting to 0.7% of GDP in
FY2005. Inflation hit 6.5% in FY2005.

More promisingly, earlier concerns about the adverse
effects on the industry sector from the phaseout of the
Multi-Fibre Agreement for garment exports proved
unfounded.

In Sri Lanka, the effect of the Indian Ocean tsunami
was not strong enough to slow economic growth significantly. First-quarter GDP was dragged down in part by
weak tourism and fisheries after the disaster, bringing it
down to 4.4%, but the country bounced back to full-year
growth of 5.7%.

An upsurge in violence at the end of 2005 left the
cease-fire with the Liberation Tigers of Tamil Ealam
looking fragile. To some extent, Sri Lanka has learned
to live with uncertainty and disasters. Its economy has
averaged 4% growth in the last 3 decades despite the
upheavals of civil war.

Nepal’s economy has fared less well amid political
instability and conflict. Growth slowed to 2.3% in

84

To some extent, Sri Lanka has
learned to live with uncertainty and
disasters; its economy has averaged
4% growth in the last 3 decades
despite the upheavals of civil war

FY2005, compared with 3.5% in FY2004, affected also
by lower agricultural production due to poor weather and
by weaker industry and services sectors. If it is to regain
the average growth of 5% in the 1990s, it will need to
resolve the conflict and accelerate its reform process.

Faced with security problems, the illicit opium trade,
the poor state of infrastructure, and weak institutions,
Afghanistan nonetheless leapt ahead to full-year GDP
growth of 13.8% in FY2005, helped by continuous international reconstruction efforts, favorable weather conditions
for agriculture, and an expanding services sector.

In Bhutan, GDP expanded by 8.8% in 2004/05,
well above the medium-term trend of 7.0%. Hydropower
remained the economic mainstay, backed up by a 19%
spurt in the construction sector.

‘The Maldives’ economy was hit hard by the Indian
Ocean tsunami and contracted 5.5% in 2005. Tourist
arrivals for 2005 did not meet expectations, while high oil
prices have exerted additional pressure.

Regional Cooperation

Regional cooperation gained momentum in South Asia,
particularly after the meeting of the South Asian
Association for Regional Cooperation in November 2005
in Dhaka. At this landmark meeting, which reinvigoratedcooperation, the leaders affirmed their commitment toa
vision of South Asian economic union in a phased manner.

Another regional grouping, the Bay of Bengal Initiatives for Multi-Sectoral Technical and Economic Cooperation, also gained momentum after a summit in July 2004.
This grouping joins Bangladesh, Bhutan, India, Nepal,
and Sri Lanka with Myanmar and Thailand.

ADB Assistance

Most urgently, assistance was rushed in 2005 to victims of
the Indian Ocean tsunami and the massive South Asian
earthquake. The late 2004 Indian Ocean tsunami
devastated coastal communities in India, Maldives, and Pakistan; ADB rushed aid under the Pakistan Earthquake Fund
Sri Lanka, while the earthquake inflicted suffering and

extensive damage in Azad Jammu and Kashmir* and

 

certain districts in North-West Frontier Province in NEW FACILITY TO FINANCE

Pakistan and in Jammu and Kashmir** in India. In both ROADS IN PAKISTAN

cases, ADB assistance concentrated on restoring the In Pakistan, total assistance was about $1.7 billion,
infrastructure needed for economic activity to resume, with _ including loans of $776 million. This also includes the
social service delivery, commerce, and communications new multitranche financing facility, which is making

either debilitated or destroyed (see page 34).
In 2005, ADB assistance to the South Asian subregion

totaled $4.4 billion. The overall operational approach The overall operational approach
remained focused on helping the eight countries spur remained focused on helping the

growth by removing infrastructural bottlenecks—in

particular roads and highway development, urban develop- eight countries spur growth by
ment, and energy—and by improving governance. Work also removing infrastructural bottlenecks

focused on sectors, such as education, and on projects

providing basic needs, such as water (see pages 88 and 93). and by improving governance

VISV HLNOS

 

South Asia: Approvals by Country, 2005 ($ million)

Grant-Financed Projects

Equity and Special Other Technical

Country Loans Guarantees Funds? Funds? Assistance Total
Afghanistan 135.00 5.50 100.00 0.00 8.49 248.99
Bangladesh 474.80 = 10.00 75.99) 7.45 568.24
Bhutan 27.30 = = 0.50 1.70 29.50
India 440.31 20.60 100.00 = 6.33 567.24 ©
Maldives 7.80 = 20.00 1.00 192 30.72
Nepal = a al = 216 2.16
Pakistan 776.30 = 85.00 36.00 15.28 912.589
Sri Lanka 253.00 oa 164.00 63.10 So 483.21
TOTAL 2,114.51 26.10 479.00 176.59 46.44 2,842.64

= nil, ADF = Asian Development Fund.

Includes Asian Development Fund IX, Asian Tsunami Fund, and Pakistan Earthquake Fund.

Includes trust funds and externally financed grants.

This figure does not include the multitranche financing facility for the Rural Roads II Investment Program ($750 million).

This figure does not include the multitranche financing facility for the National Highway Development Sector Investment Program ($770 million).

 

* Azad Jammu and Kashmir is an area over which India and Pakistan have been in dispute since 1947. The Asian Development Bank does not intend to make any
judgment as to the legal or other status of any disputed territories or to prejudice the final determination of the parties’ claims.

** Jammu and Kashmir is an area over which India and Pakistan have been in dispute since 1947. The Asian Development Bank does not intend to make any judgment
as to the legal or other status of any disputed territories or to prejudice the final determination of the parties’ claims.

85SOUTH ASIA

$770 million in financing available to support the traffic. In other sections where congestion cripples traffic,

country’s National Highway Development Sector double lanes are needed, while cities need bypasses.
Investment program. ADB’s investment will target road improvements in
Infrastructure, particularly roads vital to regional three batches: the first comprises three sample projects
trade, remains one of ADB’s focal areas. The facility will covering 376 km, the second 460 km, while the third will
support the long-term development of the country’s be determined later. The facility also provides planning
national highway network and regional road connections. and design support, management of construction
Important sections of Pakistan’s highway network schedules, social and resettlement assessments,

 

consist of only narrow roads, often unsuitable for heavy and environmental safeguards.

South Asia: Public and Private Sector Loan Approvals by Country, 2005 ($ million)

Total Date

Country OcR ADF Total Project Cost? Approved
AFGHANISTAN
Power Transmission and Distribution = 26.50 26.50 50.00 14 Apr
Fiscal Management and Public Administration

Reform Program (Subprogram |) = 48.00 48.00 55.00 14 Dec
Western Basins Water Resources Management = 60.50 60.50 87.60 20 Dec
BANGLADESH
Emergency Flood Damage Rehabilitation - 15230 152.30 240.00 20 Jan
Second Urban Primary Health Care = 30.00 30.00 90.00 31 May
Gas Transmission and Development 225.00 5.00 230.00 413.00 27 Oct
Agribusiness Development = 42.50 42.50 60.00 27 Oct
Southwest Area Integrated Water Resources = 20.00 20.00 43.40 23 Nov

Planning and Management
BHUTAN
Road Network = 27.30 27.30 34.10 30 Sep
INDIA.
Chhattisgarh Irrigation Development 46.11 = 46.11 66.61 29 Mar
Tsunami Emergency Assistance (Sector) 100.00 ca 100.00 218.60 14 Apr
Infrastructure Development Finance Company Limited? 50.00 = 50.00 50.00 19 Apr
Yes Bank Limited? 23.00 a 23.00 23.00 23 Aug
Kerala Sustainable Urban Development 221.20 = 221.20 316.10 20 Dec
MALDIVES
Tsunami Emergency Assistance = 1.80 1.80 25130) 31 Mar
Regional Development Project, Phase II—

Environmental Infrastructure and Management - 6.00 6.00 7.50 28 Apr
PAKISTAN
Agribusiness Development = 31.00 31.00 49.00 19 May
Infrastructure Development al 25.00 25.00 33.67 18 Aug
New Bong Escape Hydropower? 37.30 = 37.30 149.20 21 Nov
Balochistan Devolved Social Services Program

—Program Loan 130.00 65.00 195.00 200.00 8 Dec

-TA Loan = 5.00 5.00 6.25 8 Dec
National Highway Development Sector

Investment Program = 3.00 3.00 3.00 13 Dec
Rawalpindi Environmental Improvement 20.00 40.00 60.00 85.70 13 Dec
Earthquake Emergency Assistance = 220.00 220.00 374.20 13 Dec
Punjab Resource Management

Program—Subprogram 2 200.00 = 200.00 200.00 14 Dec
SRI LANKA
Tsunami-Affected Areas Rebuilding 0.00 7.00 7.00 249.30 14 Apr
North East Community Restoration and

Development |! = 26.00 26.00 55.00 14 Apr
Technical Education Development = 20.00 20.00 26.70 21 Nov
Local Government Infrastructure Improvement = 50.00 50.00 66.70 24 Nov
National Highways Sector 150.00 = 150.00 208.00 15 Dec

— = nil, ADF = Asian Development Fund, OCR = ordinary capital resources.

2 Total project cost includes financing by ADB, governments, borrowers, beneficiaries, and sub-borrowers; cofinancing from official, export credit, and commercial sources;
equity sponsors; and local participating private companies and financial institutions.

© Private sector loan without government guarantee.

86ADB assistance also focused on areas destroyed by
the devastating earthquake in October with almost
$400 million approved immediately to support
rehabilitation and recovery efforts (see page 34).

Work in Pakistan will shortly begin on the New Bong
Escape project, an 80-megawatt power plant downstream
from the Mangla dam on the Jhelum River in Azad Jammu
and Kashmir, home to some of the areas worst hit by the
earthquake. The plant, scheduled to begin generating
power in 2009 and to be built by a private entity, is the first
large-scale, private sector infrastructure project in Azad
Jammu and Kashmir. It is also the first private sector cofinancing between ADB and the Islamic Development Bank.

ADB also approved a $205 million loan for the
Balochistan Devolved Social Services Program, which will
support policy reforms to improve education, health, and
water supply and sanitation, and will also provide
resources for local government social services—enabling
the private sector to participate—and help develop
capacity and strengthen institutions.

INDIA: FOCUS ON INFRASTRUCTURE
Infrastructure development dominates ADB assistance in
India as well, and supports the Indian government’s own
massive plans for such investment.

South Asia: ADB Lending by Country, 2004-2005
($ million)
0.00 200,00 400,00 600.00 800.00 1,000.00 1,200.00 1,400.00

‘stan MN 205.00
Afghanistan ate

Bangladesh MEN 249.57

474.80
Bhutan 27.30
SS 1200.00
India 440.31

Maldives 7.80
Nepal MM 110.00

Pkt TT 709.20
776.30

ME 195.00
Sri Lanka 338 00

2004 2005

South Asia: Cumulative ADB Disbursements
by Country as of end-2005 ($ million)

Afghanistan 286.65
Bangladesh Bay 2105
Bhutan 98.82
India 8,144.63
Maldives 57.25
Nepal 1,437.19
Pakistan 10,530.69
Sri Lanka 2,573.91
TOTAL 28,701.77

 

Help for India’s rural sector is coming through better roads and
improved irrigation under several programs

ADB approved five loan projects in 2005, including
two private sector loans (see page 86); the Chhattisgarh
Irrigation Development project ($46.1 million); Kerala
Sustainable Urban Development project ($221.2 million);
and Tsunami Emergency Assistance Project, comprising
a loan of $100.0 million and an Asian Tsunami Fund
grant of $100.0 million. Three technical assistance
operations were approved in 2005 in support of the
government’s road program.

In addition to these loans, assistance to the country
also included $750 million for the Rural Roads II
Investment Program, setting up a credit facility from

VISV HLNOS

South Asia: Cumulative ADB Lending by Country
as of end-2005 ($ million)

 

Afghanistan 752.28
Bangladesh 8,044.69
Bhutan 138.46
India 14,936.21
Maldives 91.48
Nepal 2,214.98
Pakistan 15,035.24
Sri Lanka 3,703.25
TOTAL 44,916.59

South Asia: ADB Disbursements by Country
2004-2005 ($ million)
0,00 100,00 200.00 300.00 400.00 500.00 600.00 700.00 800,00
Afghanistan MM 4318,
Bangladesh A 214.24
Bhutan 1 7.09,
(nding —— | 401.56

698.28
Maldives | 2,19,
Nepal Ml 21,98.
Ka TT 638.78
Sri Lanka NNN 185,67,
2004 2005

87SOUTH ASIA

Gujarat Communities Meet Basic Needs

n many parts of Gujarat, India,
villagers struggle to find clean
drinking water. Almost 60% of
the state’s villages have no
water source that is assured throughout the year. In Surendranagar
district, rural communities face acute
water scarcity, especially during
summer, when the entire Saurashtra
region is parched. The rural women
bear the brunt, having to walk long
distances to collect drinking water.

The Aga Khan Rural Support
Programme is attempting to alleviate
this water crisis by mobilizing the
local women’s federation, Mahila
Manch, to operate tankers to supply
drinking water at affordable rates to
20 villages in the Chotila and Sayla
blocks of Surendranagar. In the
summer of 2005, the Manch
transported and supplied more
than 480,000 liters for nearly
2,000 households. With Aga Khan
support, the Manch procured tractors
and tankers, trained drivers, and
planned water distribution. The
Manch covers its operating costs
through a nominal charge to the
poor. This has forced private
suppliers to reduce water prices.

In the drought-prone Poshina
area of Sabarkantha district in north
Gujarat, nearly 1,000 tribal households have started lining up at the
local milk collection center to get
their milk weighed, tested, and
recorded before it is transported to
the Sabarkantha Dairy for process
 

ing. Every 10" day, villagers receive
cash payments, right in the village.

The Sabarkantha

The Sabarkantha Dairy has : Dairy has organized
organized villagers into eight dairy : 2 :
cooperatives, has helped them villagers into eight
purchase livestock, has trained them : “
in basic animal husbandry, and buys dairy cooperatives,
their entire milk production. In less
than 2 months of operations, the has helped them
villagers supplied nearly 15,000 .
liters of milk and generated sales of purchase livestock,
nearly $3,500. ; 7

Both these projects are funded has trained them AL
through a $3.4 million grant to the basic animal

government of Gujarat from the
ADB-administered Japan Fund for
Poverty Reduction. The grant is
supporting more than a dozen
similar projects in Gujarat, which are
being implemented by NGOs and
community-based organizations.

husbandry, and
buys their entire
milk production

   

Villages in Gujarat are mobilizing to address water issues

which loans can be drawn on the new multitranche
financing facility, the second facility structure set up in
South Asia after Pakistan.

Providing loans from the multitranche financing
facility, ADB’s assistance will finance investments in
the rural roads program of the government, covering
30,000 km and connecting 19,000 villages. To ensure
success, the facility will assist in all stages, from planning
to maintenance and road safety.

Multiple loans will be provided over 5 years, each
financing a clearly defined investment project. Some
3,200 km of rural roads—about 1,000 km each in Assam

88

and West Bengal and about 1,200 km in Orissa—will be
addressed in the first stage. The remaining projects will be
prepared by participating states in three annual batches.

ADB’s support to the Indian government’s development priorities include constructing rural infrastructure,
building the highway network, upgrading cities and
satellite towns, and strengthening the power sector.

In support of urban development, for example, ADB
approved a loan of $221.2 million. It aims to develop
urban living conditions in five municipal governments in
India’s southernmost Kerala State, including Kochi,
Kollam, Kozhikode, Thiruvananthapuram (the stateIn Chhattisgarh, ADB will help
improve the livelihoods of

about 120,000 farm families

by improving irrigation services
and agricultural practices through
a $46.1 million loan

capital), and Thrissur. In particular, it will rehabilitate
and expand urban water supply, sewerage and sanitation,
urban drainage, solid waste management, and roads and
transportation.

It offers “livelihood enhancement” components
focused on the poor communities; makes investments in
other smaller urban local bodies in the state; and supports
capacity building and project management.

‘The combined population of the Kerala municipalities covered by the project is 2.5 million and is projected
to rise to about 3.6 million by project completion in 2011
and further to 6.2 million by 2021. Kerala has performed
considerably better than most Indian states on social
development measures, but lingering urban poverty
remains a threat to its future growth.

In Chhattisgarh, ADB will help improve the livelihoods of about 120,000 farm families by upgrading
irrigation services and agricultural practices through
a $46.1 million loan. The project will help the government
of Chhattisgarh’s Water Resources Department better
develop and manage the state’s irrigation sector by
strengthening its existing capacity, initiating reforms,
upgrading procedures, modernizing equipment, and
developing new facilities.

It will also redefine and bolster the role of water users
associations in managing and maintaining irrigation
systems by strengthening the framework for partnership
between them and the government. The project will then
rehabilitate and upgrade about 200 minor and 20 medium irrigation schemes, especially those with
high potential for diversified cropping, serving about
200,000 hectares throughout Chhattisgarh.

Other projects in India included several funded under
the Japan Fund for Poverty Reduction, which is administered by ADB and uses extensive support from NGOs to
find creative ways to help alleviate the difficulties faced
by the poor. In Gujarat, for example, the Japan Fund for
Poverty Reduction is funding efforts to provide clean
drinking water to villages in the drought-prone state
(see page 88).

ADB’s overall loan portfolio to India at the end of
2005 comprised 33 ongoing loans for $5.7 billion,
including $2.6 billion to transport, $1.7 billion to urban
infrastructure, $1.1 billion to energy, and $0.2 billion to
the financial sector. Another $0.05 billion went to agriculture, environmental protection, and natural resources.

BANGLADESH: INFRASTRUCTURE

FOR THE POOR

In Bangladesh, ADB approved six new loans in 2005.
‘These included ADF and OCR loans for the Gas Transmission and Development project (total $230.0 million),
Emergency Flood Damage Rehabilitation project

($152.3 million), Agribusiness Development project
($42.5 million), Second Urban Primary Health Care
project ($30.0 million loan and $10.0 million ADF grant),
and Southwest Area Integrated Water Resources Planning
and Management project ($20.0 million).

The first project will construct four gas pipelines
totaling 353 km for transporting natural gas to the less
developed western region, an area with nearly 15 million
people. With plans to transport 360 million cubic feet of
natural gas per day, this will be the first time the region
has had access to a large-scale gas supply.

‘The Emergency Flood Damage Rehabilitation project
will repair public infrastructure in five sectors damaged by
major floods in 2004. It will restore access to basic services,
increase disaster preparedness and mitigation, and include
capacity building and training in infrastructure design and
assistance to enhance early warning systems.

ADB also began the second phase of the highly
successful Urban Primary Health Care project, which has
been contracting NGOs to run primary health services.
The project is providing more efficient and affordable care
than government-run services, with at least 30% of its

» a \
Under the Urban Primary Health Care project, the poor in Bangladesh
are finding better health care in government clinics run by NGOs

89

  
 

VISV HLNOSSOUTH ASIA

   

services targeted at people earning less than 700 taka
(about $10) per month. Nutritional supplements will also
be given to severely malnourished women and children.

It will be active in six cities—Barisal, Chittagong, Dhaka,
Khulna, Rajshahi, and Sylhet—and five municipalities—
Bogra, Comilla, Madhabdi, Savar, and Sirajgonj—and
support the construction of 64 health facilities, upgrading
of 4, and purchase of 12 apartments and/or buildings for
primary health care facilities in Dhaka.

Separately, Bangladesh joined Nepal and Bhutan as
one of the first batch of countries to adopt a results-based
country strategy and program for 2006-2010 (see page 92).

As a landmark harmonization initiative, the new
results-based strategy and program was prepared jointly
with the United Kingdom’s Department for International
Development, Government of Japan, and World Bank.
‘The country strategy and program is also aligned with
Bangladesh’s national poverty reduction strategy, which
aims to achieve the MDGs, including halving the
number of poor people in the country by 2015 and
delivering substantial improvements in almost all
aspects of human development. To achieve these aims,
the national poverty reduction strategy emphasizes
promoting growth, advancing human development, and
improving governance.

RECONSTRUCTING AFGHANISTAN

Since resuming operations in Afghanistan in 2002, ADB
has approved some $817.5 million in support, complemented by nearly $85 million in cofinancing. ADB will
provide the country with up to $200 million per year in

   

+

90

ADB will provide Afghanistan with up to $200 million per year in ADF loans and grants over the remainder of the 2005-2008 period

ADF loans and grants over the remainder of the 2005—
2008 period, in keeping with its pledge at the 2004 Berlin
donors’ conference, with up to 50% ona full-grant basis.
Another $10 million a year in grant financing will go
toward capacity development and technical assistance.

In 2005, ADB approved a $50 million loan and grant
package to improve the power supply. The project will
construct a 110-kilovolt power transmission network, as
well as a low-voltage distribution system that will connect
11 rural towns, or more than 900,000 households, to the
emerging electricity grid.

Another grant for $55 million will rehabilitate a final
section of Afghanistan’s “ring road” as ADB’s further
contribution to major international efforts to restore the
national road system (see page 91).

A $75 million ADF loan and grant project will
support irrigation rehabilitation in Afghanistan’s Western
Basins region. The project will include extensive capacity
development for Afghan authorities and improve community water resource management.

The $55 million Fiscal Management and Public
Administration Reform Program approved in 2005
consisting of loan and grant support will help improve
government budgeting, strengthen domestic resource
mobilization, improve the civil service, and enhance the
monitoring of public finance—all important complements to investments in infrastructure rehabilitation.

ADB’s assistance also contributes to improving
governance and development skills, national institutions,
and major policies—areas that have constrained
Afghanistan’s reconstruction.at the end of December 2004. In the coastal regions,
however, the tidal waves killed tens of thousands, wiped

In the private sector, a $35 million loan approved in
2004 to the main telecommunications provider, a company
called Roshan, had extraordinary results in 2005. Before
the mobile phone network started operations, Afghanistan’s
nearly 30 million people had to make do with just 25,000
decrepit land-based telephone lines. Roshan quickly drew
down the full ADB loan to erect communications towers
to reach more remote parts of the country.

out whole villages, and destroyed businesses. Td help
rebuild, ADB provided $157 million in 2005, of which
$150 million was given as a grant from the Asian Tsunami
Fund. Support is going to the reconstruction of roads,
community infrastructure, and shelter; rebuilding
livelihoods; and coastal protection. Other funding
agencies are supporting reconstruction in education,
health, and power. The Japan Fund for Poverty Reduction
also provided a total of $4 million in grants for post
TSUNAMI ASSISTANCE FOR SRI LANKA
In Sri Lanka, the industrial sectors of the country were

more or less unscathed by the Indian Ocean tsunami tsunami reconstruction.

Gordian Task Reconnects Afghanistan

ixing Afghanistan's transport

network has been an

undertaking of Gordian

complexity. As a result of
conflict, the nation’s roads were
devastated, with many sections
having all but disappeared. An early
assessment of Afghanistan's
transport sector found that up to
54% of the country’s national roads,
totaling 6,100 km in length, were in
poor condition.

Just getting supplies to construction sites has been a huge logistical
challenge. Roadsides remained
littered with land mines, freezing
winters slowed progress, and remote
mountain ranges posed numerous
problems. In addition, many areas
were still subject to insurgencyrelated violence, delaying the
reconstruction process and augmenting security costs.

Yet through a massive international effort that includes ADB support,
work to rebuild the “ring road” that
circles the country and links Afghanistan to its neighbors is now well
under way. Planners have even begun
eyeing Afghanistan's central geo
Rehabilitating the
road system is critical
for a landlocked country like Afghanistan

graphic position and its potential as
a land bridge to boost regional trade.

Rehabilitating the road system is
critical for a landlocked country like
Afghanistan. In 2005, ADB approved
a $55 million ADF grant to rehabilitate one of the last major unpaved
stretches of the ring road. Together
with an $80 million loan approved in
late 2004, ADB financing will rehabilitate 300 km from Andkhoy to Bala
Murghab, south of the Turkmenistan
border, linking this remote part of
the country with the city of Herat,
about 100 km from Afghanistan's
western border with Iran.

The project will include the
provision of toll facilities, important
for longer-term operation and
maintenance of the national road
system, and will also support HIV/

An early assessment of Afghanistan's transport sector found tha

AIDS prevention and antihuman
trafficking awareness campaigns in
areas near the road project.

ADB is also preparing a road
development master plan through a
$2 million technical assistance grant
that will identify routes linking main
markets and production centers.
Completion of the full primary road
network by 2008, together with
major upgrades of adjoining roads in
the Central Asian republics, Iran, and
Pakistan, will help realize the goal of
a regional transport corridor.
Afghanistan’s opening of its borders
has provided new opportunities for
landlocked countries in Central Asia
to take advantage of the transit
corridors to access the Arabian Sea
and Persian Gulf through Iranian and
Pakistani ports.

     

tt up to 54% of the

country’s national roads were in poor condition

  
 

VISV HLNOSa?
Te)
<<
is
—E
=
fe}
vy

 

im

 

Ei = Stet
Sri Lankans have been reestablishing livelihoods after the Indian

Ocean tsunami, with ADB's help (above); throughout the region,
ADB focuses on bringing the essentials of life to the poor (right)

In addition to the tsunami assistance project,
four other projects were approved in 2005, including
the $150 million National Highways Sector project,
$50 million Local Government Infrastructure Improvement project, $40 million loan and grant North East
Community Restoration and Development II project,
and $20 million loan for the Technical Education
Development project.

ADB and the new government are discussing reforms
in key sectors, including power; roads; and, in alignment
with the International Monetary Fund, fiscal management. The government is striving to improve economic
management within existing structures and promote a
greater role for the private sector and sector restructuring
where necessary for better performance. In Sri Lanka, the
lack of investment in infrastructure is one of the biggest
obstacles to private sector growth and investment, with
power among the most expensive in South Asia, and the
road network outside of Colombo in rough condition.

BHUTAN, MALDIVES, AND NEPAL

In Bhutan, total assistance in 2005 came to $29.5 million,
including $27.3 million for the Road Network project,
which will improve national roads and selected secondary
roads to better connect rural areas. It will upgrade about
140 km of the 244 km Gelephu-Trongsa national
highway, which connects with the Indian border.

As part of the first batch of results-based country
strategies and programs, the Bhutan country strategy and
program is designed to focus on managing for development
results. It will facilitate the achievement of the MDGs in
Bhutan as well as specific commitments in each sector,
with goals, targets, and indicators to which ADB assistance
operations will contribute. It aims to reduce poverty

92

 

through economic diversification, broadening the base to
better absorb large numbers of young people as they leave
the school system. ADB undertook its country strategy and
program in consultation with other development partners to
ensure that all sectors of the economy were adequately
covered.

In the Maldives, the response to the tsunami included
a $20 million Asian Tsunami Fund grant and a loan for
$1.8 million. The Maldives Tsunami Emergency Assistance project aims to boost economic recovery by rebuilding damaged infrastructure and restoring livelihoods,
especially of the poor, on the affected islands. The Japan
Fund for Poverty Reduction also provided a $1 million
grant for the restoration of livelihoods of the tsunamiaffected farmers.

The $6 million loan for the Regional Development
project Phase II—Environmental Infrastructure and
Management was approved in April 2005 to raise the
standard of living in the central regions of the Maldives
by improving environmental and land management.

‘Total assistance in the year amounted to $30.7
million, including $7.8 million in loans, $21.0 million
in grant financing, and technical assistance amounting
to $1.9 million.

In Nepal, political instability and the security
situation hampered the 2005 assistance program,
although ADB approved a technical assistance for
$2.2 million. It was the first year of implementation
of the new Nepal country strategy and program (2005—
2009). It is ADB’s first pilot results-based country
strategy and program and is serving as a model for
other DMCs.Water Projects Take on Rural and Urban Poverty

cross Bangladesh, every

year, millions struggle

through months of floods,

food insecurity, disease,
and scarce incomes. In Pakistan’s
third largest city of Rawalpindi,
storm drains turn into sludge canals
that seep waste into groundwater
and through broken pipes, and
contaminate the drinking water.

These stark realities, however, are

changing. ADB is supporting governments as they tackle some of the
region's toughest water problems.
These operations also address an
array of poverty issues that are directly
and indirectly linked to poor water
supplies and lack of sanitation. The
impact of these projects is proving
that an investment in the water
sector is an investment across the
poverty board.

Stemming Floods Revitalizes
Rural Life
Managing chronic floods in
Bangladesh was not the objective,
per se, of the Small-Scale Water
Resource Development Sector
project. Rather, it was an entry into
reducing overall poverty. If floods
could be managed, drainage
improved, and irrigation water made
available, then total cropping area
and cropping intensity could
increase. Essentially, less flooding,
more fields, more irrigation, and
higher yields could result in greater
overall productivity, more farm jobs,
and higher income levels.

What the project envisioned,
it accomplished—and more. In its
first phase (1995-2002), using an
intensely participatory approach in
the 280 subproject areas in the
west, total crop area increased by
almost 13% and cropping intensity
by 40%. The increased agricultural
production in project areas has
generated 14.4 million labor-days
annually. Fishery production also
increased and created an estimated
176,000 labor-days annually.

Local people have formed water
management associations to sustain
these benefits. According to inspec
tions undertaken by the Department
of Cooperatives, members have effectively used their savings to start micro
credit schemes to increase their incomes in new activities, such as purchasing milk cows, sewing machines,
and higher producing seeds.

The same approach is being rolled
out in 300 more communities during
phase 2 of the project (2002-2009).
A third phase is planned.

Rawalpindi Project Brings
Institutional Reforms

The deplorable conditions of water
supply and sanitation in Rawalpindi,
near Islamabad, Pakistan, were clear
indications that institutions were not
in order. Lessons from other projects
have shown that the sustainability of
water supply and sanitation projects
requires the utilities to be in good
financial health first.

So the Rawalpindi Urban Water
Supply and Sanitation Project went to
work on institutional and financial
reforms. Unreasonable and unsustainable low tariff levels have been
revised, billing systems computerized,
several complaint offices established,
a disconnection policy for defaulters
of bills strictly enforced, and an
incentive program initiated among
utility employees to improve
collection efficiency of utility bills.

At the same time, the project
began increasing water supply levels
by considerably rehabilitating the
distribution system, legalizing illegal
connections, and extending the
network to new areas.

The institutional reforms are
making for a more efficient, reliable
system as the project unfolds into
phase 2 (the Rawalpindi Environmental Improvement Project), which
was approved in December 2005.

Operations Break Down Divisions
Guided by ADB’s Water for All Policy,
which was externally reviewed in
2005, these projects show how
ADB's operations in rural and urban
water are cutting across sectors in
17 DMCs with ongoing projects.

In 2005, ADB approved a total of

$1.4 billion in water sector loan
components and $27.5 million in
technical assistance grants, which
includes the water supply, sanitation,
and waste management sector, as
well as water subsector components
in multi-sector loans, amounting to
20% of ADB total lending and 14%
of total grants. In the water supply,
sanitation, and waste management
sector alone, ADB approved $618
million in new loans and $5.1
million in technical assistance grants.

The investments are a considerable contribution to sustaining
economic development—laying the
groundwork for water's critical role
in achieving almost all the MDGs.

In the water supply,
sanitation, and waste
management sector
alone, ADB approved
$618 million in new
loans and $5.1 million
in technical assistance
grants in 2005

   

The impact of these projects is proving
that an investment in the water sector is
an investment across the poverty board

g3)

VISV HLNOSSoutheast
Asia

Indonesia, Malaysia,
Philippines, Singapore

Subregional Perspective

outheast Asia has made solid economic progress

since the financial crisis of 1997. Overall the

subregional economy has bounced back, with

strong performance in particular in Malaysia

and Singapore, though political uncertainty,
weak finances, and governance challenges to varying degrees
have clouded the picture in Indonesia and the Philippines.
Significant challenges remain in poverty reduction, with a
total of more than 60 million people in poverty in Indonesia
and the Philippines.

‘The Philippine economy’s challenges are many, as
illustrated in the 2005 numbers. GDP growth slowed to
5.1%, from 6.0% in 2004, which ADB economists have said
is not enough for rapid progress in reducing the country’s
deep poverty. In the past, the Philippine economy has been
prone to boom and bust, rising and falling with the unstable
political climate and inconsistent policies.

It has settled down in recent years, but as the 2005
numbers show, the economy is still struggling to maintain
strong enough growth to absorb the rapidly expanding
population. Higher growth requires better public resource

ce
I
Ee
i
a
<<
fir
ac
5
fo}
a

 

management and incentives to spur private sector involvement. The key to meeting the government’s hoped-for GDP
growth of 7-8% by 2010, say ADB economists, is annual
investment in capital stock of at least 10% of GDP in net
terms, substantially higher than the current rate of 3%.

‘The government took strong measures in 2005 to avert a
fiscal crisis. Expansion of the value-added tax has is improving for people like this
contributed to a 20% drop in the deficit, an 8% RCA Dele

94<x
a
¢
A
7)
i?
fn
=
a
=)
le}
A)

 

Southeast Asia: Main Indicators,? 2005

Real GDP Average Foreign
Poverty Growth Inflation Trade Direct
Rate Rate Rate Balance Investment
Country (%) (%) (%) ($ million) ($ million)
Indonesia 6.5 5.6 10.5 22,784.0 2,258.0
Malaysia 0.2 5.3 3.0 33,391.0 YAO)
Philippines 14.1 Sil 7.6 (7,546.0) 970.0
Singapore - 6.4 0.4 37,953.0 14,562.0

—no data available, (_) negative.
* Where 2005 data are unavailable, data for the latest year have been provided.

strengthening of the peso, and a drop of more than
100 basis points in government borrowing costs.

‘The slower 2005 economy was in part due to
a weaker agricultural performance and slower growth
in the services sector. Exports also slowed sharply to
3.7%, from 9.8% in 2004.

Arevival in investment bolstered Indonesia’s economy
in 2005, with GDP expanding by 5.6%, compared with
4.9% in 2004, fueled by an 8.1% expansion in fixed
capital investment. The pickup follows the relatively
seamless transition to a new government after elections in
2004, and expectations of greater regulatory certainty and
a recovery in infrastructure spending.

‘The Indonesian government earned high marks from
around the world for its firm measures to avert a fiscal
crisis threat caused by surging oil prices, while at the

same time the government provided programs to lessen

  

The private sector—and a well-educated population—will be critical
for achieving growth and creating jobs

96

 

the impact on the poor (see page 97). By slashing fuel
subsidies, it relieved pressure on finances and helped
shore up investor trust.

Inflation rose due to the fuel price increases but
by year-end, the Bank of Indonesia’s aggressive monetary
stance had stopped the surge in prices and also led to
a rebound in the rupiah, which had lost more than 10%
of its value earlier in the year.

Longer term, the private sector will be critical to
achieving the government’s growth and job creation
objectives.

In Malaysia and Singapore, strong exports fueled
growth, with GDP expanding by 5.3% in Malaysia and
6.4% in Singapore, the second outstanding year for the
city-state.

‘The year saw the end of the peg of the ringgit to
the US dollar and a series of reform steps, including
preparation of major consumption-based tax reforms
aimed at improving the business environment, further
cementing Malaysia’s position as one of Asia’s strongest
emerging economies.

Regional Cooperation

Indonesia, Malaysia, Philippines, and Singapore have
been at the forefront of regional cooperation initiatives
in Asia for nearly 40 years as core members of ASEAN
and as participants in the ASEAN Free Trade Area and
the ASEAN Vision 2020, which foresees an integrated

The Indonesian government

earned high marks from around
the world for its firm measures

to avert a fiscal crisis threat caused
by surging oil pricesSoutheast Asian market by 2020. The countries also take
part in other leading international cooperation forums,
such as the Asia-Pacific Economic Cooperation.

Aseries of external and internal crises in recent years
has reinforced the need for strengthened cooperation: the
financial crisis of the late 1990s, severe acute respiratory
syndrome (SARS), HIV/AIDS, avian flu, haze from forest
fires, and terrorism and other security threats are all
spurring deeper cooperation.

ADB sees opportunities for subregional energy
resource sharing, transport, financial sector development,
and safeguarding marine and fisheries resources.
Consultations have been held in Indonesia, Malaysia,
and Philippines.

Separately, in December 2005, the heads of
government and state from the Brunei Darussalam—
Indonesia—Malaysia—Philippines East ASEAN Growth
Area and Indonesia—Malaysia—Thailand Growth Triangle
agreed to meet annually. ADB has been asked to help the
two subregional initiatives formulate methods to track

Cushioning High Fuel Oil Prices

he cost of living for

Indonesia‘s rural poor

increased overnight when

national fuel oil subsidies
were slashed in October 2005 as
an essential measure to maintain
macroeconomic stability. The price
of kerosene, the most widely used
fuel in poor households, rose by
more than 185%.

To help lessen the impact, the
government launched programs
to bring in more investment into
rural infrastructure, health, and
education. ADB was asked to step in
and quickly approved a $50 million,
3-year loan to support the government’s Fuel Subsidy Reduction
Compensation program in eastern
provinces, where vulnerability to the
shock was greatest.

The loan finances communitydriven construction and repair of
village roads, bridges, culverts,
irrigation systems, water supply and
sanitation, and drainage works.
About 1,800 mostly isolated villages
in East Java, East Nusa Tenggara,
Southeast Sulawesi, and South
Sulawesi provinces will benefit.

 

development progress and identify opportunities for
private sector investment in the poorer islands of
Southeast Asia.

Malaysia is playing a lead role in consultations for
cooperation, and participating in several subregional
technical assistance activities, including support for
strengthening institutions in the Brunei Darussalam—
Indonesia—Malaysia—Philippines East ASEAN Growth
Area, and for developing Islamic financial services.

In 2005, ADB began preparing a regional cooperation
strategy and program for the four nations, which is
targeted for completion in 2006.

ADB Assistance

ADB’s lending programs in Indonesia and the Philippines
were overhauled and revitalized during the year as the
organization more than doubled loan approvals and
disbursements, reflecting a move toward greater

mA
fe)
S
=
ae
nm
a
nv
a
os
ie
>

 

To soften the impact of reduced fuel oil
subsidies, ADB approved a $50 million loan
to support the Indonesian government's Fuel
Subsidy Reduction Compensation program

97TST

5)

o
frm
ae
=
fo}
a)

 

  

a

Improving rural infrastructure is key to reducing poverty

responsiveness and relevance in its operations. Total ADB
assistance in 2005 was about $1.7 billion.
Highlights included approval of $1.3 billion for
nine loan projects, including the private sector,
well up from $671 million in 2004; and $1.3 billion
in disbursements, a 122% increase over 2004. ADB also
provided a $300 million Asian Tsunami Fund grant
to Aceh for reconstruction after the tsunami (see page 34).
In the Philippines, the expanded assistance included
$180 million in loans to support the development of
small- and medium-sized enterprises and microfinance.
ADB has improved management of its active loan
portfolio, and is breaking with the past under a new

Southeast Asia: Approvals by Country, 2005 ($ million)

Equity and
Country Loans Guarantees
Indonesia 1,145.69 =
Philippines 180.00 19.40
TOTAL 17325169) 19.40

— = nil, ATF = Asian Tsunami Fund
* Includes trust funds.

98

 

The new Philippines country
strategy and program is part

of a batch of country guides that
place acute focus on results,

in particular through identifying
clear measures that can be
monitored and evaluated

country strategy and program for 2005-2007 that changes
ADB’s operating partnership with the Philippines.
Specific annual lending targets have not been included in
ADB’s overall 3-year envelope of $1.5 billion of possible
financial support. This provides the flexibility to respond
to changes in the lending environment.

‘The new Philippines country strategy and program is
part of a batch of country guides that place acute focus on
results, in particular, through identifying clear measures
that can be monitored and evaluated.

In Indonesia, two major loans made up the bulk of
lending: one to support local government finance and
governance reforms, and the other for the country’s
medium-term growth and poverty reduction program.
ADB also backed the government’s program for improving
rural infrastructure with a $50 million loan in 2005.

ADB took steps to draw the private sector into its
development efforts. A major loan will back the $6.3 billion
‘Tangguh Gas Project in West Papua, ADB’s first private
sector project in Indonesia’s oil and gas sector, as well as
ADB’s first private sector operation in Indonesia since the
1997 financial crisis. In the Philippines, a $25 million
public-private sector loan will help boost development
of small- and medium-sized enterprises.

In Malaysia, ADB continues to expand its private
sector operations, with equity positions taken in new
funds such as the Flagship Capital Corporation.

Grant-Financed Projects

Other Technical
ATF Funds® Assistance Total
300.00 30.48 10.33 1,486.50
oa 0.70 4.62 204.72
300.00 31.18 14.95 1,691.22)INDONESIA

Strengthening Governance

Loan approvals in 2005 reached $1.1 billion in Indonesia,
including a private sector loan, with particularly strong
focus on governance and infrastructure.

In November, ADB approved a $300 million loan
to the country to strengthen and rationalize the policy,
legal, and regulatory frameworks for decentralization,
and to establish a more effective mechanism for
coordination among different levels of government.
Local governments are assigned responsibilities for
most public functions including service delivery under
Indonesia's decentralization laws, which were approved
in 1999 and amended in 2004, but inconsistencies in
the legal and regulatory frameworks and undeveloped
local level capacity have made implementation of their
responsibilities extremely challenging.

‘The loan supports revisions to the original
decentralization framework and adoption of related rules
and regulations to streamline and clarify responsibilities
among different levels of government to ensure greater
transparency and accountability in the flow of funds to

Southeast Asia: Cumulative ADB Lending by
Country as of end-2005 ($ million)

Indonesia 20,728.50
Malaysia 1,987.54
Philippines 8,799.03
TOTAL 31,515.07

local governments in Indonesia

Southeast Asia: ADB Lending by Country

2004-2005 ($ million)

0.00 400.00 800,00

225.00

Indonesia

446.00
Philippines nT

2004 2005

Malaysia had no loans during the period.

Southeast Asia: Public and Private Sector Loan Approvals by Country, 2005 ($ million)

Country OCR
INDONESIA
Community Water Services and Health 34.10
Road Rehabilitation-2 151.00
Local Government Finance and Governance
Reform Sector Development Program
- Program Loan 300.00
- Project Loan =
Tangguh Liquefied Natural Gas? 350.00
Rural Infrastructure Support =
Development Policy Support Program 200.00
PHILIPPINES
Purchase and Resolution of Equitable 5.00
PCI Bank's Portfolio of Nonperforming
Loans and Assets?
Small and Medium Enterprise Development 25.00
Support
Microfinance Development Program 150.00

— = nil, ADF = Asian Development Fund, OCR = ordinary capital resources.

® Total project cost includes financing by ADB, governments, borrowers, beneficiaries, and sub-borrowers; cofinancing from official, export credit, and commercial sources;
equity sponsors; and local participating private companies and financial institutions

© private sector loan without government guarantee.

Total

ADF Total Project Cost?
30:59) 64.69 97733
0.00 151.00 215.80
ad 300.00 300.00
30.00 30.00 42.90
= 350.00 6,303.00
50.00 50.00 60.81
= 200.00 200.80
a 5.00 10.00
a 25.00 26.00
= 150.00 150.00

An ADB loan is financing the provision of public services by

1,200,00

   

1,145.69

Date
Approved

7 Apr
29 Sep

3 Nov
3 Nov
14 Dec
19 Dec
21 Dec

24 Jun

29 Sep

22 Nov

VISV LSVAHLNOS

 

99ASIAN

?
i
ac
=
S)

5

 

in| 4 vee 2 =
According to its medium-term development plan, Indonesia needs to
invest about $145 billion in infrastructure projects to sustain an
annual GDP growth of 6% through 2009

finance the provision of public services by local
governments. A national action plan for next steps in
fiscal decentralization is also supported. These reforms
promote development of a clear mandate for the delivery
of education, health services, and public works.

A separate $30 million loan will develop integrated
regional systems to support preparation of more reliable and
consistent financial statements by 71 local governments
and provide access to an integrated regional financial
information system to these local governments as well
as to 100 more, supporting the devolution of funding
to address regional inequities in basic public services
and strengthening the framework for local government
borrowing.

ADB also supported the Indonesian government’s
efforts to improve macroeconomic management. Under
its medium-term development plan for 2005-2009,
Indonesia aims to boost sustainable economic growth to
7% by 2009, from about 4% in the years before 2004.

It is alsoa government target to halve the poverty rate
to 8.2% by 2009, from 16.6% in 2004.

A $200 million loan for the Development Policy
Support Program is being provided in conjunction with
World Bank assistance of $400 million, and further

Southeast Asia: Cumulative ADB Disbursements
by Country as of end-2005 ($ million)

Indonesia 15,112.95
Malaysia 1,403.28
Philippines 6,280.29
TOTAL 22,796.52

100

    

assistance is planned from the government of Japan.

‘The harmonized assistance focuses on sound public
financial management and more effective use of fiscal
resources through measures to improve governance and
combat corruption with an eye at enhancing the efficiency
of public expenditures, improving the investment
climate, and strengthening the financial sector.

Infrastructure for Growth

Investment in public infrastructure in Indonesia
collapsed after the Asian financial crisis, slumping to
$1.5 billion by 2002 from $16 billion in 1996. In a recent
study, Indonesia’s infrastructural investments ranked

last among countries with populations of more than

20 million.

‘The rural areas are particularly poorly served: a recent
study found that only 15% of rural households had access
to piped or pumped drinking water, and just 21% had
septic tanks. More than half of rural villages were not
connected by paved roads, and a third lacked year-round
access. The number of rural poor in Indonesia in 2004 was

Southeast Asia: ADB Disbursements by Country
2004-2005 ($ million)

0.00 300.00 600.00 900.00 1,200.00

Ee
Indonesia coe 4,014.99

| 3.94
Malaysia | 395

172.82
Philippines ee

HH 2004 2005Upgrading Neighborhoods in Indonesia and the Philippines

alf the urban population

of the Philippines lives in

makeshift housing in

informal settlements,
where drinking water, sanitation,
and drainage systems are grossly
inadequate, according to official
figures.

In Indonesia, where about
91 million people live in cities,
the housing and land markets have
also not kept pace with rapid urban
growth.

Recent initiatives challenged
shortcomings in urban upgrading
projects and opened new areas of
microfinance. The Philippines’
Development of Poor Urban
Communities Sector project and the
Indonesian Neighborhood Upgrading and Shelter Sector project work
with local governments and NGOs
to make affordable plots available
and to ensure access to loans.

The Indonesian project is helping
180,000 households secure tenure.

 

about 24.7 million, or one fifth of the rural population.
According to its medium-term development plan,

Indonesia needs to invest about $145 billion in

infrastructure projects to sustain an annual GDP growth

of 6% through 2009.

ADB approved three infrastructure-related loans last
year: Road Rehabilitation 2, Community Water Services

In the Philippines, as well as helping
over 20,000 poor urban households
secure accommodation, microfinance
for small enterprises provided through
10,000 loan packages has benefited
about 100,000 poor urban residents.

A $100 million Metro Manila
Urban Services for the Poor project,
now under preparation, will include
a long-term metro-wide strategy for
upgrading slums in the National
Capital Region.

The Strategic Private Sector Partnerships for Urban Poverty Reduction
project has harnessed the power of
the private sector to help the poor in
Metro Manila. It brings together the
Philippine Business for Social Progress
and ADB. Homes are being built,
day-care facilities set up, flood-prone
streets paved, and water systems and
proper drainage installed. With a
$3.6 million grant from the Japan
Fund for Poverty Reduction and
$3.6 million from the Philippine
Business for Social Progress, it covers

Program.

26 communities in eight metro area
cities.

Further afield, a 3-year project in
Mindanao, run by the Notre Dame
Foundation for Charitable Activities,
Inc—Women in Enterprise Development—with a $1 million grant from
the fund—is providing social safety
nets for poor female market vendors
in eight cities.

The Indonesian
housing project is
helping 180,000
households
secure tenure

wv
fe)
i=
=
ae
m
a
a
ft
a
eas
>

    

Housing and land markets in Indonesia
have not kept pace with rapid urban
growth (above); a grant fund is providing
social safety nets to female vendors in
Mindanao, Philippines (left)

and Health Project, and Rural Infrastructure Support

Road Rehabilitation 2, the second phase of an earlier
project, focuses on restoring and improving safety in key

sections of national roads in Sumatra and Kalimantan

islands. It will provide farmers and local entrepreneurs with
better access to markets; reduce transport costs; make it

101TST

s)

i?
frm
ae
=
fo}
a)

 

easier for governments to deliver administrative and social
services; and create other income-earning opportunities,
including the operation of o/ek or motorcycle taxis. HIV/
AIDs awareness campaigns will also run parallel with road
construction activities in Kalimantan and Sumatra.

As part of its efforts to obtain private sector
support for major infrastructure projects, ADB approved
a $350 million loan for the Tangguh Liquefied Natural
Gas Project in West Papua, which will extract gas from
fields in the Berau and Bintuni Bay areas, a big step in the
revival of ADB’s private sector operations in Indonesia.

PHILIPPINES

A Boost for Enterprise

The $180 million in loans approved in 2005 for the
Philippines included support for financial sector
development, with a focus on microfinance and smalland medium-sized enterprises. In addition is a loan for

$5 million, without government guarantee, for the
purchase and resolution of nonperforming loans and assets
of Equitable PCI Bank.

‘The lending program is also closely linked to and
supports the fiscal consolidation agenda to which the
authorities have demonstrated a strong commitment.

‘The budget deficit, the primary indicator of national
fiscal health, fell from 3.9% of GDP in 2004 to 2.7% in
2005. The expansion of the value-added tax removed
formerly exempted transactions in November 2005 and
set the rate at 10%. (In February 2006, the expanded
value-added tax was raised to 12%.) Administration of the

tax system is being strengthened, and the challenge now

 

is to implement hard-won policy changes to ensure that
incremental revenues are collected.

Anew $150 million loan for the Microfinance
Development Program aims to improve the access of
the poor to financial services. The loan supports the

 

102

government’s program to encourage private sector
participation in the delivery of microfinance services,
address systemic weaknesses, and promote competitively
priced financial services for the poor and their enterprises.

Microfinance is central to the government’s strategy
for reducing poverty under the Social Reform and Poverty
Alleviation Act, and the Philippines has made good
progress. More than two thirds of the country’s poor, or
17 million people, do not have access to microfinance
services and rely on costly informal sources. Access to
microfinance gives poor people the chance to build viable
businesses and livelihoods.

Among its many features, the new ADB loan will help
remove restrictions on competition for microfinance
services, improve governance, and promote efficient
operations and the expansion of private sector-led
microfinance institutions. It will make borrowing costs

clearer by introducing greater transparency and “truth in
lending” to all types of microfinance institutions. Also,
it will clarify the tax regime governing the institutions.
In September, ADB approved the loan for small- and
medium-sized enterprise development, a project that
includes a $25 million loan that will support the Small
Business Guarantee and Finance Corporation to expand

   

  

 

Making microfinance loans available helps provide income-generating
opportunities for women such as this basketmaker (above) and
general store owner (left)its portfolio of loans to small- and medium-sized
enterprises. The project also includes a partial credit
guarantee facility of about $18.4 million, and an equity
investment of up to $1 million.

By 2010, the government wants the enterprises to
contribute about 40% of value-added to the economy,
up from about 32% now, but it faces constraints in
unsupportive policies, cumbersome and costly registration
and licensing processes, and the lack of a national
business and collateral registry.

The partial credit guarantee, equivalent to about
1 billion Philippine pesos ($19.5 million), will be offered
to encourage selected private sector financial institutions
to also expand their portfolios for small- and mediumsized enterprises, particularly to medium-sized
enterprises outside the corporation’s target group. The
facility will cover up to 50% of well-defined loan
portfolios. The equity investment will help establish a
comprehensive and credible credit information system,
one of the factors constraining development of the sector.

Improving Housing Finance and Upgrading Slums
ADBassisted the Philippine National Home Mortgage
Finance Corporation in resolving its portfolio of highly
delinquent mortgage loans through a P1.6 billion loan
approved in December 2004, which reached financial
closure in November 2005. The loan to Balikatan
Housing, Inc., a special purpose company, financed its
purchase of the portfolio of nonperforming loans from the
National Home Mortgage Finance Corporation. The sale
of the troubled housing portfolio through this transaction
will allow the corporation to more effectively allocate its
resources to developing and providing a secondary market
for home mortgages to low- and middle-income
households.

ADB is also taking a 10% equity stake in Bahay
Financial Services, Inc., a new loan servicing company
that will restructure and service the nonperforming loans
on behalf of Balikatan Housing, Inc. A major portion of
the funding for the peso-denominated loan came from

In 2005, ADB continued work to
strengthen the Philippines’ Energy
Regulatory Commission and to
advise the Power Sector Assets and
Liabilities Management Corporation
on the privatization of assets

   

Urban housing is being improved in the Philippines through a
program that promotes the development of low-income housing
units by the private sector

an ADB Philippine peso-denominated bond priced in
October 2005.

To help alleviate the worst effects of poverty, the
Strategic Public-Private Partnerships for Urban Poverty
Reduction project, with funding from the Japan Fund for
Poverty Reduction, continued in 2005 to combine the
business sector, local government units, and NGOs in the
Philippines to address the delivery of basic services and
livelihood programs. Operating in 26 marginalized
communities in eight cities of Metro Manila—Caloocan,
Malabon, Marikina, Muntinlupa, Navotas, Pasig, Quezon
City, and Taguig—its many achievements have financed
construction of better homes and local infrastructure for
894 households, given micro loans for businesses, and
provided hundreds of individuals with scholarships,
business training, and skills enhancement.

 

A)
fe)
Ss
a
ae
m
b>
im
ey
od
eas
>

 

Energy Restructuring

In 2005, ADB continued work to strengthen the
Philippines’ Energy Regulatory Commission and to advise
the Power Sector Assets and Liabilities Management
Corporation on the privatization of assets of the National
Power Corporation under a technical assistance grant
approved in 2004.

Restructuring the power sector has reached a crucial
juncture. While the new legal and regulatory framework
for introducing competition is largely in place, privatizing
generation and transmission assets has been slow.

103Appendixes

105 Appendix 1: Members, Capital Stock, and Voting Power

106 Appendix 2: Resolutions of the Board of Governors Adopted in 2005

106 Appendix 3: Selected Policy, Financial, and Administrative Papers
Considered by the Board in 2005

107. Appendix 4: Board of Governors

109 Appendix 5: Board of Directors and Voting Groups

110 Appendix 6: Committees of the Board of Directors

110 Appendix 7: ADB Institute Advisory Council

111. Appendix 8: Organizational Structure

112 Appendix 9: Former ADB Presidents and Vice Presidents

113. Appendix 10: Summary of Budget for 2006

 

List of Abbreviations
ADB Asian Development Bank
ADF Asian Development Fund
I ASEAN Association of Southeast Asian Nations
x DMC developing member country
& GDP gross domestic product
< GMS Greater Mekong Subregion
HIV/AIDS human immunodeficiency virus/acquired immunodeficiency syndrome
Lao PDR Lao People’s Democratic Republic
MDG Millennium Development Goal
NGO nongovernment organization
OCR ordinary capital resources
PRC People’s Republic of China
SARS severe acute respiratory syndrome
km kilometer

104APPENDIX 1
Members, Capital Stock, and Voting Power
(as of 31 December 2005)

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Year of Subscribed — Voting Year of Subscribed — Voting
Membership Capital? Power Membership Capital? Power?
(% of total) (% of total) (% of total) (% of total)
REGIONAL NONREGIONAL
Afghanistan 1966 0.034 0.340 Austria 1966 0.343 0.587
Armenia 2005 0.301 0.553 Belgium 1966 0.343 0.587
Australia 1966 5.834 4.979 Canada 1966 5.274 4.531
Azerbaijan 1999 0.448 0.671 Denmark 1966 0.343 0.587
Bangladesh 1973 1.029 1.136 Finland 1966 0.343 0.587
Bhutan 1982 0.006 0.317 France 1970 2.347 2.190
Cambodia 1966 0.050 0.352 Germany 1966 4.361 3.802
China, People's Republic of 1986 6.496 5.510 Italy 1966 1.822 1.770
Cook Islands 1976 0.003 0.315: Luxembourg 2003 0.343 0.587
Fiji Islands 1970 0.069 0.367 The Netherlands 1966 1.034 1.140
Hong Kong, China 1969 0.549 0.752 Norway 1966 0.343 0.587
India 1966 6.383 5.419 Portugal 2002 0.343 0.587
Indonesia 1966 5.490 4.705 Spain 1986 0.343 0.587
Japan 1966 15.734 12.900 Sweden 1966 0.343 0.587
Kazakhstan 1994 0.813 0.963 Switzerland 1967 0.588 0.783
Kiribati 1974 0.004 0.316 Turkey 1991 0.343 0.587
Korea, Republic of 1966 5.079 4.375 United Kingdom 1966 2.059 1.960
Kyrgyz Republic 1994 0.302 0.554 United States 1966 15.734 12.900
Lao, People's
Democratic Republic 1966 0.014 0.324 .
Malaysia 1966 2.745 2.509 Subtotal Nonregional 36.649 34.944
Maldives 1978 0.004 0.316 TOTAL 100.000 100.000
Marshall Islands 1990 0.003 0.315
Micronesia, | | |
Federated Sextes of 1990 0.004 0.316 Note: ite ee For other details, see tables
Mongolia 1991 0.015 0.325 a Subscribed capital refers to a member's subscription to shares of the
Myanmar 1973 0.549 0.752 capital stock of ADB.
a test Ga. anc proper onal votes, ie barcvatevef ean bercansltal
Nepal 1966 0.148 0.431 such number of votes as results from the equal distribution among all 5
New Zealand 1966 1.548 1551 members of 20% of the aggregate sum of the basic votes and proportional =
Pakistan 1966 2.196 2.069 votes of all members. The number of proportional votes of each member 3
is equal to the number of shares of the capital stock of ADB held by that Gg
Palau 2003 0.003 0.315 member. x
Papua New Guinea 1971 0.095 0.388 n
Philippines 1966 2.402 2.234
Samoa 1966 0.003 0.315
Singapore 1966 0.343 0.587
Solomon Islands 1973 0.007 0.318
Sri Lanka 1966 0.585 0.780
Taipei,China 1966 1.098 1.191
Tajikistan 1998 0.289 0.543
Thailand 1966 1.373 1.411
Timor-Leste 2002 0.010 0.320
Tonga 1972 0.004 0.316
Turkmenistan 2000 0.255 0.517
Tuvalu 1993 0.001 0.314
Uzbekistan 1995 0.679 0.856
Vanuatu 1981 0.007 0.318
Viet Nam 1966 0.344 0.588
Subtotal Regional 63.351 65.056

 

105n
a
x<
a
ra
ir
a
a
EG

 

APPENDIX 2
Resolutions of the Board of Governors Adopted in 2005

 

 

RESOLUTION NO. SUBJECT DATE ADOPTED
303 Decisions Relating to Section 5 of the By-Laws 21 January 2005
304 Amendment to Section 7(B)(a) of the By-Laws 21 January 2005
305 Transfer of OCR Surplus to the Asian Tsunami Fund 4 March 2005
306 Place and Date of Fortieth Annual Meeting (2007) 5 May 2005
307 Financial Statements and Independent Auditors’ Reports 6 May 2005
308 Allocation of Net Income 6 May 2005
309 Procedures for the Election of Directors 26 May 2005
310 Transfer of Ordinary Capital Resources Surplus to the Pakistan

Earthquake Fund

25 November 2005

 

311 Conversion of ADF Resources into Other Currencies 28 November 2005
312 Development Status of the Republic of Palau 16 December 2005
APPENDIX 3

Selected Policy, Financial, and Administrative Papers Considered by the Board in 2005

 

SUBJECT

DATE

 

Proposed Revision of the Water Policy of the Asian Development Bank

Proposed Revisions to the Asian Development Fund Regulations and
Adoption of Special Operations Grant Regulations

Asian Tsunami Fund

Review of the Asian Development Bank's Loan Charges and Allocation of 2004 Net Income
The Public Communications Policy of the Asian Development Bank

Enhanced Separation Program

Organizational Adjustments for Enhanced Operational Effectiveness

Local Currency Lending

Implementation of Disclosure Provisions of ADB’s Public Communications Policy Pertaining to Chair
Summaries and Minutes of Board of Directors’ Discussions, and Operations Evaluation Reports

Eligibility of ADF Grant Projects for the Summary Procedure

Policies and Procedures on the Use of Consultants by the Asian Development Bank and Its Borrowers
Cost Sharing and Eligibility of Expenditures for Asian Development Bank Financing: A New Approach
Introducing the Local Currency Loan Product

Pilot Financing Instruments and Modalities

Revising the Procurement Guidelines

Work Program and Budget Framework (2006-2008)

Special Capital Budget Proposal—The Business Continuity Facility

A Review of Accounting Policy on Currency Exchange Rates Used for Financial Reporting and Transactions
Japan Fund for Public Policy Training Modified Implementation Arrangements

Revision of the Summary Procedure

Asian Development Fund Currency Management Proposal

Comprehensive Review of Compensation and Benefits for Professional Staff

Pakistan Earthquake Fund

Proposed Change in Asian Tsunami Fund Implementation Arrangements
and Transfer of Unutilized Amounts from the Asian Tsunami Fund and
Ordinary Capital Resources Surplus, Both to the Pakistan Earthquake Fund

A Review of the Policy on Supplementary Financing: Addressing Challenges and Broader Needs
Borrowing Program for 2006
Budget of the Asian Development Bank for 2006

Proposed Revisions to the Regulations of the Asian Development Fund
and the Special Operations Loan Regulations

28 January 2005

7 February 2005
17 February 2005
12 April 2005

22 April 2005

19 May 2005

19 May 2005

15 June 2005

12 July 2005

10 August 2005

19 August 2005

25 August 2005

25 August 2005

25 August 2005

20 September 2005
11 October 2005
13 October 2005
13 October 2005
14 October 2005
14 October 2005
27 October 2005

3 November 2005
14 November 2005

14 November 2005
28 November 2005
06 December 2005
16 December 2005

19 December 2005

 

106APPENDIX 4
Board of Governors
(as of 31 March 2006)

Elbuchel Sadang
(Palau)
(Vice-Chair)

P. Chidambaram
(India)
(Chair)

Jean-Louis Schiltz
(Luxembourg)
(Vice-Chair)

 

MEMBER

GOVERNOR

ALTERNATE GOVERNOR

 

Afghanistan
Armenia

Australia

Austria

Azerbaijan
Bangladesh
Belgium

Bhutan

Cambodia

Canada

China, People’s Republic of
Cook Islands
Denmark

Fiji Islands

Finland

France

Germany

Hong Kong, China
India

Indonesia

Italy

Japan

Kazakhstan
Kiribati

Korea, Republic of
Kyrgyz Republic
Lao People's Democratic Republic

Anwar UI-Haq Ahady
Vardan Khachatryan!
Peter Costello
Karl-Heinz Grasser
Heydar Babayev*

M. Saifur Rahman
Didier Reynders
Lyonpo Wangdi Norbu
Keat Chhon

Peter MacKay?

Jin Renging

Terepai Maoate®

Ole E. Moesby

Jone Yavala Kubuabola
Marjatta Rasi”

Thierry Breton

Karin Kortmann®
Henry Tang

P. Chidambaram

Sri Mulyani Indrawati"'
Mario Draghi'?
Sadakazu Tanigaki
Natalya Artemovna Korzhova'*
Nabuti Mwemwenikarawa
Duck-Soo Han

Akylbek Japarov
Chansy Phosikham

Wahidullah Shahrani
David Avetissian'
Teresa Gambaro?
Marcus Heinz?

Avaz Alekperov

Md. Ismail Zabihullah
Gino Alzetta

Daw Tenzin

Aun Porn Moniroth
Alister M. Smith

Li Yong

Kevin Carr

Sus Ulbaek

Savenaca Narube
Anneli Vuorinen®
Xavier Musca

Rolf Wenzel

Joseph Yam

A. K. Jha!?
Burhanuddin Abdullah
Ignazio Angeloni'?
Toshihiko Fukui
Marat Apsemetovich Kusainov'>

>
U
sas]
a
iS
oa
m
n

Taneti Maamau

Seung Park

Sabyrbek A. Moldokulov
Phouphet Khamphounvong

 

 

Luxembourg Jean-Louis Schiltz Arsene Jacoby'®
Malaysia Dato’ Seri Abdullah Haji Ahmad Badawi _— Dato’ Izzuddin bin Dali
1 Appointed in December 2005. 9 Succeeded Uschi Eid in December 2005.
2 Succeeded Bruce Wilson in March 2006. 10 Succeeded Rakesh Mohan in July 2005.
3 Succeeded Thomas Wieser in March 2005. 11 Succeeded Jusuf Anwar in December 2005.
4 Succeeded Farhad Aliyev in October 2005 12 Succeeded Antonio Fazio in February 2006.
5 Succeeded Pierre Pettigrew in February 2006. 13. Succeeded Lorenzo Bini Smaghi in June 2005.
6 Succeeded Geoffrey Henry in August 2005. 14 Succeeded Arman Galiaskarovich Dunayev in March 2006.
7 Succeeded Pertti Majanen in September 2005. 15 Succeeded Batyrkhan Arysbekovich Issayev in March 2006.
8 Succeeded Taisto Huimasalo in September 2005. 16 Succeeded Georges Heinen in September 2005.

107n
a
x<
a
ra
ir
a
a
EG

 

CONTINUED

 

MEMBER

GOVERNOR

ALTERNATE GOVERNOR

 

Maldives

Marshall Islands
Micronesia, Fed. States of
Mongolia

Myanmar

Nauru

Nepal

The Netherlands

New Zealand
Norway

Pakistan

Palau

Papua New Guinea
Philippines
Portugal

Samoa
Singapore
Solomon Islands
Spain

Sri Lanka
Sweden
Switzerland
Taipei,China
Tajikistan
Thailand
Timor-Leste
Tonga

Turkey
Turkmenistan
Tuvalu

United Kingdom
United States
Uzbekistan
Vanuatu

Viet Nam

Ismail Shafeeu
Brenson S. Wase
Nick L. Andon
N. Altankhuyag
Hla Tun

David Adeang
Roop Jyoti!®
Gerrit Zalm

Michael Cullen

Anne Margareth Fagertun Stenhammer'?
Omar Ayub Khan

Elbuchel Sadang

Bart Philemon

Margarito B. Teves?!

Fernando Teixeira dos Santos”?
Misa Telefoni Retzlaff
Raymond Lim Siang Keat
Peter Boyers

Pedro Solbes Mira

Mahinda Rajapaksa2°

Annika Soder

Oscar Knapp

Fai-nan Perng

Matlubkhon S. Davlatov®
Thanong Bidaya’’”

Maria Madalena Brites Boavida
Siosiua T.T. ‘Utoikamanu

Ali Babacan?®

Geldymurat Abilov??
Bikenibeu Paeniu

Hilary Benn

John W. Snow

Saidakhmat Rakhimov>?

Willie Jimmy Tapangararua?>
Le Duc Thuy

Riluwan Shareef
Amon Tibon

Lorin Robert

Ochirbat Chuluunbat
Daw Myo Nwe
Jonathon Kirkby'”
Bhanu Prasad Acharya

Agnes van Ardenne-van der
Hoeven

John Whitehead

Nils Haugstveit

Khalid Saeed?°

Marino Rechesengel
Simon Tosali

Amando M. Tetangco, Jr.2?
Carlos Costa Pina”4
Hinauri Petana

Lim Siong Guan
Shadrach Fanega
David Vergara Figueras
P. B. Jayasundara
Anders Oljelund
Adrian Schlaepfer
Shuh Chen

Nagmatjon Kh. Buriev
Suparut Kawatkul
Aicha Bassarewan
Aisake Eke

Ibrahim H. Ganakci??
(vacant)

Aunese Makoi Simati>!
Gareth Thomas
Josette S. Shiner?”
Ulugbek Rozukulov?4
Simeon Athy

Phung Khac Ke

 

17 Succeeded Peter Depta In February 2006.

18 Succeeded
19 Succeeded
20 Succeeded
21 Succeeded
22 Succeeded
23 Succeeded
24 Succeeded
25 Succeeded
26 Succeeded

108

Shumshere J.B. Rana in December 2005
Leiv Lunde in October 2005.

Shuja Shah in June 2005.

Cesar V. Purisima in July 2005.

Rafael Buenaventura in July 2005.

Luis Campos e Cunha in July 2005.

Maria Dos Anjos Nunes Capote in July 2005.

Sarath Amunugama in December 2005.
F.S. Kholboboev in March 2006.

27 Succeeded Somkid Jatusripitak in August 2005

28
29
30

32
33
34
35

Succeeded
Succeeded
Appointed
Succeeded
Appointed
Succeeded
Succeeded
Succeeded

Ibrahim H. Canakci in March 2006.

Cavit Dagdas in March 2006.

in March 2006.

Seve Paeniu in March 2006.

in October 2005.

Rustam S$. Azimov in August 2005.
Mamarizo Nurmuratov in August 2005.
Moana Carcasses Kalosil in November 2005.APPENDIX 5

Board of Directors and Voting Groups

(as of 20 January 2006)

 

DIRECTOR

ALTERNATE DIRECTOR

MEMBERS REPRESENTED

 

Volker Ducklau'
Emile Gauvreau
Sibtain Fazal Halim?
Agus Haryanto
Chol-Hwi Lee
Masaki Omura
Patrick Pillon®
Ashok Saikia
Stephen Sedgwick
Paul W. Speltz

Chaiyuth Sudthitanakorn

Xiaosong Zheng?

David Taylor
Pasi Hellman?
Marita Magpili-Jimenez*
Richard Stanley
Batir Mirbabayev
Atsushi Mizuno®
Niklaus Zingg
Nima Wangdi’”
Richard Moore
Paul W. Curry®
Sein Tin

Xiaolong Mo'?

Austria; Germany; Luxembourg; Turkey; United
Kingdom

Canada; Denmark; Finland; The Netherlands;
Norway; Sweden

Kazakhstan; Maldives; Marshall Islands;
Mongolia; Pakistan; Philippines; Timor-Leste

Cook Islands; Fiji Islands; Indonesia; Kyrgyz
Republic; New Zealand; Samoa; Tonga

Republic of Korea; Papua New Guinea;
Sri Lanka; Taipei, China; Uzbekistan; Vanuatu;
Viet Nam

Japan

Belgium; France; Italy; Portugal; Spain;
Switzerland

Afghanistan; Bangladesh; Bhutan; India;
Lao People's Democratic Republic; Tajikistan

Australia; Azerbaijan; Cambodia; Federated
States of Micronesia; Hong Kong, China;
Kiribati; Nauru; Palau; Solomon Islands; Tuvalu

United States

Malaysia; Myanmar; Nepal; Singapore;
Thailand

People's Republic of China

 

Succeeded Rolf Eckermann on 1 July 2005.

Succeeded Geert Jan Engelsman on 1 September 2005.
Succeeded M. Akram Malik on 16 November 2005.
Succeeded M. Akram Malik on 1 July 2005.
Succeeded Masaichiro Yamanishi on 24 August 2005.
Succeeded Michele Miari Fulcis on 1 October 2005.

Succeeded M. Saiful Islam on 1 June 2005.
Succeeded Troy Wray on 20 January 2006.
Succeeded Ju Kuilin on 1 February 2005.
Succeeded Shaolin Yang on 1 February 2005

COMIN AMAWNS

>
U
sas]
a
iS
oa
m
n

 

109APPENDIX 6

Committees of the Board of Directors

(as of 23 January 2006)

STANDING COMMITTEES

 

AUDIT COMMITTEE
Patrick Pillon (Chair)
Batir Mirbabayev
Atsushi Mizuno
Paul W. Speltz
Richard Stanley
Chaiyuth Sudthitanakorn

BUDGET REVIEW COMMITTEE
Ashok Saikia (Chair)
Paul Curry
Sibtain Fazal Halim
Pasi Hellman
Xiaolong Mo

Masaki Omura

COMPLIANCE REVIEW COMMITTEE DEVELOPMENT EFFECTIVENESS

Stephen Sedgwick (Chair)
Volker Ducklau
Chol-Hwi Lee

Marita Magpili-Jimenez

Sein Tin

Niklaus Zingg

COMMITTEE
Agus Haryanto (Chair)
Emile Gauvreau
Richard Moore
David Taylor
Nima Wangdi
Xiaosong Zheng

WORKING COMMITTEE

 

WORKING GROUP ON THE ANNUAL REPORT FOR 2005

APPENDIX 7
ADB Institute Advisory Council
(as of 31 December 2005)

My
ay
a
ra
ir)
a
(als
<<

Masahiko Aoki
William P. Fuller

 

Eric Girardin

Li Yong

Corattiyil Ramachandran
Kanit Sangsubhan

Ifzal Ali

ADB Institute Dean

Peter McCawley

110

David Taylor (Chair)
Pasi Hellman
Batir Mirbabayev
Xiaolong Mo
Sein Tin
Nima Wangdi

Japan

United States

France

People's Republic of China
India

Thailand

ADB Chief EconomistAPPENDIX 8
Organizational Structure’
(as of 31 March 2006)

 

BOARD OF GOVERNORS

 

 

BOARD OF DIRECTORS

 

 

 

 

PRESIDENT
H. Kuroda

 

 

 

MANAGING DIRECTOR
GENERAL
Yee

 

 

 

 

 

 

OPERATIONS EVALUATION
DEPARTMENT?
8. Murray, Director General

OFFICE OF THE COMPLIANCE

REVIEW PANEL?
R. Zelius, Secretary

 

 

 

ASIAN DEVELOPMENT
BANK INSTITUTE
P. McCawley, Dean

 

I
VICE-PRESIDENT
(Knowledge Management and
Sustainable Development)
G. van der Linden

 

VICE-PRESIDENT
(Operations 1)
L. Jin

 

VICE-PRESIDENT
(Operations 2)
C. Lawrence Greenwood, Jr.

 

VICE-PRESIDENT
(Finance and Administration)
K. Pholsena

 

 

 

OFFICE OF
THE AUDITOR GENERAL
P. Pedersen, Auditor General

REGIONAL AND SUSTAINABLE
DEVELOPMENT DEPARTMENT
B. Lohani,” Director General

SOUTH ASIA DEPARTMENT
K. Senga, Director General

 

EAST AND CENTRAL ASIA
DEPARTMENT
H. S. Rao, Director General

 

 

OFFICE OF
ie THE SECRETARY
J. Hovland, The Secretary

 

 

 

STRATEGY AND POLICY
DEPARTMENT
K. Sakai, Director General

ECONOMICS AND RESEARCH
DEPARTMENT
|. Ali, Chief Economist

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

‘AFGHANISTAN
1 _ RESIDENT MISSION
IB. Fawcett, Country Director

AZERBAUAN
UH RESIDENT MISSION
M. Westfall, Country Director

 

BANGLADESH
RESIDENT MISSION
H. Du, Country Director

L T. Shibuichi
Country Director

PRC RESIDENT MISSION

 

 

 

 

 

OFFICE OF THE
H GENERAL COUNSEL
A. Mitchell, General Counsel

 

 

 

 

OFFICE OF BUDGET, PERSONNEL AND
OFFICE OF REGIONAL L.| COFINANGING OPERATIONS INDIA RESIDENT MISSION KAZAKHSTAN [| MANAGEMENT. SYSTEMS
ECONOMIC INTEGRATION W. Liepach, L T. Kondo RESIDENT MISSION DEPARTMENT
M. Kawai, Head Principal Director county Blicctor S. Wermert K. Munenaga, Director General
Country Director
NEPAL KYRGYZ, OFFICE OF
}| _ RESIDENT MISSION H_ RESIDENT MISSION ADMINISTRATIVE SERVICES
OFFICE GF THE re ls. Rahman, Country Director| M.A. Malik, Country Director + "AL Wasani

N. Samarasingha, Special
Project Facilitator

 

 

RISK MANAGEMENT UNIT
Y. Shin, Head

 

 

 

 

DEPARTMENT OF EXTERNAL
RELATIONS
J. Hiday, Director General

 

 

 

 

 

CAMBODIA SOUTHEAST ASIA OFFICE OF
EUROPEAN 7. _ RESIDENT MISSION 4 DEPARTMENT |] INFORMATION SYSTEMS
REPRESENTATIVE OFFICE S.P. Bajpai, Country Director] (vacant), Director General ‘AND TECHNOLOGY
P. Benedic R. Dawson, Principal Director] ps
Resident Director General LAO PDR INDONESIA as]
1]. RESIDENT MISSION 1 RESIDENT MISSION a
J. Nugent, Country Director} iol
TAPAS 9) y E. Cua, Country Director =
REPRESENTATIVE OFFICE 4
TRAILAND, PHILIPPINES. ay
W.chung RESIDENT MISSION )

Resident Director General

 

 

 

 

 

PAKISTAN
RESIDENT MISSION
P. Fedon, Country Director

MONGOLIA
-} _ RESIDENT MISSION
(vacant), Country Director

 

 

SRI LANKA
RESIDENT MISSION
A. Pio, Country Director

TAJIKISTAN
| RESIDENT MISSION
N. Jain, Country Director

 

 

MEKONG DEPARTMENT
R. Nag,® Director General

 

 

 

 

UZBEKISTAN
L} RESIDENT MISSION
S. O'Sullivan, Country Director

Principal Director

 

 

CONTROLLER'S
H DEPARTMENT
P. Chiu, Controller

 

 

TREASURY
a DEPARTMENT
M. Kashiwagi, Treasurer

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

). Verbiest, Country Director|

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

“| _ COUNTRY OFFICE
T. Crouch, Country Director

 

 

RECEIVE Ory RESIDENT MISSION
REPRESENTATIVE OFFICE 4
T. Diaz lA, Konishi,’ Country Director]  },,_ PACIFIC DEPARTMENT

Resident Director General

 

 

 

 

PRIVATE SECTOR

 

UY OPERATIONS DEPARTMENT.
R. Bestani, Director General

 

 

 

 

For a list of management and senior staff, go to www.adb.org/

About/management.asp.

OED reports to the Board of Directors through the Board
Development Effectiveness Committee.
The Compliance Review Panel reports to the Board of Directors.

Concurrent Special Advisor to the President on Regional

Economic Integration.

Concurrent Chief Compliance Officer and Special Advisor to the
President on Clean Energy and Environment.
Concurrent Special Advisor to the President in charge of Regional
Economic Cooperation and Integration.
Effective upon assumption of office.

7

Erquiaga, Director General

 

 

 

PACIFIC LIAISON AND
COORDINATION OFFICE
N. Chakwin
Regional Director

 

 

PACIFIC
SUBREGIONAL OFFICE
S. Jarvenpaa
Regional Director

 

 

PAPUA NEW GUINEA
RESIDENT MISSION
S. van der Tak
Country Director

 

 

SPECIAL LIAISON OFFICE
IN TIMOR-LESTE
C. Andrews
Resident Representative

 

 

 

 

CENTRAL OPERATIONS
L{ “SERVICES OFFICE
P. Daltrop, Principal DirectorMy
ay
a
ra
ir)
a
(als
<<

 

APPENDIX 9

Former ADB Presidents and Vice Presidents

(as of January 2006)

 

President

 

Takeshi Watanabe
Shiro Inoue
Taroichi Yoshida
Masao Fujioka
Kimimasa Tarumizu
Mitsuo Sato

Tadao Chino

24 November 1966-24 November 1972
25 November 1972-23 November 1976
24 November 1976-23 November 1981
24 November 1981-23 November 1989
24 November 1989-23 November 1993
24 November 1993-15 January 1999
16 January 1999-31 January 2005

 

Vice President

 

C. S. Krishna Moorthi
A. T. Bambawale

M. Narasimham

S. Stanley Katz

In Yong Chung
William R. Thomson
Gunther G. Schulz
Bong-Suh Lee

Pierre Uhel

Peter H. Sullivan
Myoung-Ho Shin
John Lintjer

Joseph B. Eichenberger

19 December 1966-31 March 1978
1 April 1978-28 October 1985

1 November 1985-31 July 1988

1 April 1978-28 September 1990

1 August 1988-31 July 1993

1 October 1990-30 June 1994

1 April 1983-30 June 1995

1 August 1993-31 July 1998

1 July 1995-24 November 1998

6 July 1994-20 September 2000

1 August 1998-31 July 2003

18 January 1999-16 January 2004
15 December 2000-23 December 2005

 

112APPENDIX 10

Summary of Budget for 2006
Internal Administrative Expenses
($ thousand)

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

2005
After 2006
Budget Transfers® Actual Budget?
|. BOARD OF GOVERNORS 975 975 920 1,350
ll BOARD OF DIRECTORS 19,477 20,137 20,030 19,540
lll. OPERATIONAL EXPENSES 222,537 222,537 221,916 236,123
Salaries 115,178 113,728 113,728 123,606
Benefits 61,799 63,919 63,919 65,008
Staff Development 3,267 2,369 1,894 3,697
Relocation 3,769 3,997 3,997 4,848
Consultants 18,906 20,303 20,303 19,327
Business Travel 19,246 17,849 17,735 19,259
Representation 372 372 340 378
IV. ADMINISTRATIVE EXPENSES 53,870 53,870 51,398 56,566
Communications 6,962 7,053 7,053 6,540
Office Occupancy 11,355 12,281 12,281 11,945
Library 925 937 937 694
Office Supplies 1,934 1,934 1,825 1,771
Office Equipment 6,288 6,288 5,518 5,518
Contractual Services 10,243 10,243 9,536 10,941
Insurance 837 837 747 3,483
Depreciation 14,839 13,810 13,019 15,271
Miscellaneous 487 487 482 403 —
V. TOTAL BEFORE GENERAL CONTINGENCY 296,859 297,519 294,264 313,579 a
VI. GENERAL CONTINGENCY 2,969 2,309 - 3,136 2
Vil. Less: Fee Reimbursements from Trust Funds‘ (3,818) "
TOTAL 299,828 299,828 294,2644 312,897

 

a Transfers were made between budget items without exceeding the original amount of each category. An amount of $660,000 was transferred from
the General Contingency to meet overruns in the budget category Board of Directors.

 

b Effective from 2006 Budget, all expenses to fund ADB's annual meeting are centralized in the budget category Board of Governors. In addition, the
subsidized premium of the postretirement group medical insurance plan will be reclassified from the Operational Expenses category (Benefits) to
Administrative Expenses category (Insurance).

c The fee reimbursement received by ADB from administering trust funds of multilateral and bilateral institutions is netted off to derive the net Internal
Administrative Expenses budget starting with the 2006 Budget.

d Excludes the following items reconciling with financial statements in compliance with generally accepted accounting principles: (i) provisions for future
liabilities with respect to severance pay (-$1,131,000), accumulated compensated absences ($1,151,000), and accrued resettlement/repatriation
allowances ($4,284,000); (ii) adjustments of actuarially determined assessment of benefit obligations with respect to pension costs ($13,967,000)
and postretirement medical benefits ($20,349,000); and (iii) expenses related to the enhanced separation program ($4,661,000); and (iv) adjustments
related to the Afghanistan Resident Mission Guest House (-$67,000). Total administrative expenses, as shown in the financial statements, amounted
to $337,478,000. This amount, after deducting $522,000 directly charged to the Japan Scholarship Program ($69,000) and Japan Fund for Poverty
Reduction ($453,000), has been distributed as follows: OCR—$135,689,000 (Ref. OCR-2) net of $24,481,000 as front-end fee offset against loan
origination costs and recognized as a reduction in administrative expenses; ADF—$175,751,000 (Ref. ADF-2), and Japan Special Fund—$1,035,000
(Ref. JSF-2).

113n
wu

“4
is)
4
rates
(ae
<¢

 

ADB Contact Addresses

(as of 31 March 2006)

Afghanistan Resident Mission
House No. 126, Street 2

Yaqoub, Roundabout

Shar-e-now,

Nest to District 10 Police Department
Kabul, Afghanistan

Tel +93 020 210 3602

Azerbaijan Resident Mission
96 Nizami St. 4'" Floor
Landmark Building

Baku AZ1000, Azerbaijan

Tel +994 12 496 5800

Fax +994 12 465 9990
adbazrm@adb.org
www.adb.org/azrm

Bangladesh Resident Mission
Plot E-31, Sher-e-Bangla Nagar
Dhaka-1207, Bangladesh

Tel +880 2 815 6000 to 6016
Fax +880 2 815 6018/6019
adbbrm@adb.org
www.adb.org/brm

Cambodia Resident Mission
29 Suramarit Boulevard (268/19)
Sangkat Chaktomok

Khan Daun Penh

Phnom Penh, Cambodia

P.O. Box 2436

Tel +855 23 215805/215806/
216417

Fax +855 23 215807
adbcarm@adb.org
www.adb.org/carm

People’s Republic of China
Resident Mission

7" Floor, Block D

Beijing Merchants International
Financial Center

156 Fuxingmennei Avenue
Xicheng District

Beijing 100031, PRC

Tel +86 10 6642 6601

Fax +86 10 6642 6606
adbprcm@adb.org
www.adb.org/prem

European Representative Office
Rahmhofstrasse 2

60313 Frankfurt am Main
Germany

Tel +49 69 2193 6400

Fax +49 69 2193 6444
adbero@adb.org
www.adb.org/ero

India Resident Mission

4, San Martin Marg

Chanakyapuri

New Delhi 110 021

India

P.O. Box 5331, Chanakyapuri HPO
Tel +91 11 24107200

Fax +91 11 2687 0955
adbinrm@adb.org
www.adb.org/inrm

114

Indonesia Resident Mission
Gedung BRIl, 7‘ Floor

JI. Jend Sudirman Kav. 44-46
Jakarta 10210, Indonesia
P.O. Box 99 JKPSA

Jakarta 10350A

Indonesia

Tel +62 21 251 2721

Fax +62 21 251 2749
adbirm@adb.org
www.adb.org/irm

Japanese Representative Office
Yamato Seimei Building 2"4 Floor
1-7 Uchisaiwaicho 1-Chome
Chiyoda-ku, Tokyo 100-0011
Japan

Tel +81 3 3504 3160

Fax +81 3 3504 3165
adbjro@adb.org
www.adb.org/jro

Kazakhstan Resident Mission
12 Samal

Astana Tower Business Center
10" Floor, Astana 010000
Kazakhstan

Tel +7 3172 325053/325054
Fax +7 3172 328343

20A Kazybek bi Street, Arai Building
4" Floor, Almaty 050010
Kazakhstan

Tel +7 3272 582223/917344

Fax +7 3272 918670
adbkarm@adb.org
www.adb.org/karm

Kyrgyz Resident Mission

52-54, Orozbekov Street

Bishkek, 720040, Kyrgyz Republic
Tel +996 312 627343/612 900445
Fax +996 312 627344
adbkyrm@adb.org
www.adb.org/kyrm

Lao PDR Resident Mission
Corner of Lanexang Avenue and
Samsenthai Road

P.O. Box 9724, Vientiane

Lao People’s Democratic Republic
Tel +856 21 250444

Fax +856 21 250333
adblrm@adb.org
www.adb.org/Irm

Mongolia Resident Mission
MCS Plaza, 2" Floor
4Natsagdorj Street
Ulaanbaatar, Mongolia

P.O. Box 1083, Central Post Office
Ulaanbaatar-13, Mongolia

Tel +976 11 313440/323507/
329836

Fax +976 11311795
adbmnrm@adb.org
www.adb.org/mnrm

Nepal Resident Mission
Srikunj, Kamaladi, Ward No. 31
P.O. Box 5017

Kathmandu, Nepal

Tel +977 14227779

Fax +977 1 422 5063
adbnrm@adb.org
www.adb.org/nrm

North American
Representative Office

815 Connecticut Avenue, NW
Suite 325

Washington DC 20006, USA
Tel +1 202 728 1500

Fax +1 202 728 1505
naro@adb.org
www.adb.org/naro

Pacific Liaison Coordination Office
Level 18, 1 Margaret Street

(corner of Clarence and Margaret
Streets)

Sydney, New South Wales 2000
Australia

Tel +61 2 82709444

Fax +61 2 8270 9445
adbplco@adb.org
www.adb.org/plco

Pakistan Resident Mission
Overseas Pakistanis Foundation
Building

Sharah-e-Jamhuriyat

G-5/2, Islamabad

GPO Box 1863, Islamabad, Pakistan
Tel +92 51 282 5011 to 5016/
208 7300

Fax +92 51 282 3324/227 4718
adbmprm@adb.org
www.adb.org/prm

Papua New Guinea Resident Mission
Deloitte Tower, Level 13

P.O. Box 1992

Port Moresby, NCD

Papua New Guinea

Tel +675 321 0408

Fax +675 321 0407
adbpnrm@adb.org
www.adb.org/pnrm

Philippines Country Office

6 ADB Ave., Mandaluyong City
1550 Metro Manila, Philippines
Tel +63 2 683 1000

Fax +63 2 683 3300
phco-mailbox@adb.org
www.adb.org/phco

Special Office in Timor-Leste
ADB-World Bank-IMF Building
Avenida Dos Direitos Humanos
P.O. Box 62, Dili, Timor-Leste
Tel +670 332 4801

Fax +670 332 4132
www.adb.org

South Pacific Subregional Office
Level 5, Ra Marama Building

91 Gordon Street

Private Mail Bag, Suva, Fiji Islands
Tel +679 331 8101

Fax +679 331 8074
adbspso@adb.org
www.adb.org/spso

Sri Lanka Resident Mission
49/14-15 Galle Road
Colombo 3, Sri Lanka

Tel +94 11 238 7055/533 1111
Fax +94 11 238 6527
adbslrm@adb.org
www.adb.org

Tajikistan Resident Mission
107 Nozim Khikmat Street
Dushanbe, 734001, Tajikistan
Tel +992 372 235314/235315/
210558

Fax +992 372 244900
adbtjrm@adb.org
www.adb.org/tjrm.

Thailand Resident Mission

23" Floor

The Offices at Central World
999/9 Rama | Road, Pathumwan
Bangkok 10330, Thailand

Tel +66 2263 5300

Fax +66 2263 5301
jpverbiest@adb.org
www.adb.org

Uzbekistan Resident Mission

1A. Khodjaev Street

Tashkent 700027, Uzbekistan

Tel +998 71 120 7921/7922/7925
Fax +998 71 120 7923
adburm@adb.org
www.adb.org/urm

Viet Nam Resident Mission
Units 701-706

Sun Red River Building

23 Phan Chu Trinh Street
Hoan Kiem District

Hanoi, Viet Nam

Tel +84 4 933 1374

Fax +84 4 933 1373
adbvrm@adb.org
www.adb.org/vrm.

Asian Development Bank Institute
8°" Floor, Kasumigaseki Bldg.

2-5 Kasumigaseki 3 Chome
Chiyoda-ku, Tokyo 100, Japan

Tel +81 3 3593 5500

Fax +81 3 3593 5571
info@adbi.org

www.adbi.org