or Asia and the Pacific and for the Asian Development Bank (ADB), 2000 was a year of sustained progress. The
economy of developing Asia and the Pacific grew by over 7 percent, continuing the remarkable recovery from
the 1997 regional financial crisis. Within this favorable economic environment, ADB was able once again to
focus on its fundamental development role and to consolidate its position as a broad-based development
institution. Lending rebounded to $5.85 billion in 2000 from $4.98 billion in 1999, with resumed activity in several

developing member countries (DMCs).

The implementation of the poverty reduction strategy,
approved in late 1999, got under way in earnest; it was
bolstered by the successful replenishment of the Asian
Development Fund (ADF) and the establishment of the Japan
Fund for Poverty Reduction. New policy initiatives were
agreed for work in private sector development. Deliberations
began on a long-term strategic framework.

Throughout the year, ADB championed financial and
regulatory reform, especially for crisis-affected countries. At
year’s end, in these countries, external debt structures and
payment positions were quite sturdy—net capital outflow
mostly related to scheduled debt repayments, and foreign
exchange reserves were generally ample. Most banking
indicators were stronger, and some progress was made in
corporate restructuring. However, the extent of restructuring
and regulatory reform was far from adequate, as complacency
replaced urgency. Also, global trends and political developments unsettled capital and currency markets within the region.

For 2001, the regional economy should continue to grow
albeit at a slower pace, but there are uncertainties, and
economic performance will depend greatly on external
developments. The performance of developed economies
(especially that of the United States), the state of global
electronics markets, and the political situations in some countries could all have a critical influence on overall performance.

Private sector development strategy

In March, the Board approved a new private sector development strategy. Its fundamental aim is to strengthen the private
sector so that it can be the vehicle that pulls the poor out of
poverty. There are three key thrusts: creating enabling
conditions where business can flourish and pro-poor growth
be fostered; generating business opportunities to ensure that
ADB's public sector investments do not crowd out the private
sector and that all possible opportunities are taken to crowd
it in; and catalyzing private investments by providing direct
ADB financial assistance to private sector projects that have
clear development impacts or demonstration effects.

Four areas of operation will be given priority: governance
in the public and private sectors because the business
community needs stability and certainty in the legal and

regulatory framework; financial intermediation because good
access to finance is critical to private sector development;
public-private partnerships because they help balance development goals with commercial interests; and regional and
subregional cooperation because cooperation offers larger
markets, economies of scale, and efficient division of labor.

ADF: a concessional resource

The seventh ADF replenishment (ADF VIII)—so vital in the
fight against poverty—was concluded in Okinawa, Japan in
September following meetings in Australia, Italy, Thailand,
and United Kingdom. For the four-year period commencing
1 January 2001, the planned ADF lending target is $5.65 billion, financed by new contributions ($2.91 billion) and additional commitments generated from existing and internal
resources ($2.74 billion). Portugal, whose ADB membership
is being processed, and Singapore became new donors.
During the replenishment negotiations, donors agreed
on several priorities for ADF VIII. These included introducing
systematic performance-based allocation for ADF loans;
stronger support for good governance in the region; and
increased focus on gender equality, environmental protection,
and regional cooperation. They recommended abandoning loss
provisioning for loans and denominating loans in special
drawing rights. They requested a reexamination of the
allocation basis of administrative expenses between ADF
resources and ordinary capital resources (OCR); an assessment of encashment of contributions on a fixed schedule/
pro rata basis among donors; and an examination of technical assistance financing in the midterm review of ADF VIII.
Institutional initiatives recommended by the donors
included establishing a Development Effectiveness
Committee to enhance the impacts of operations and
measures to improve relationships with shareholders.

JFPR: a grant resource

The Japan Fund for Poverty Reduction (JFPR), a new financial
resource, was established in 2000. The Government of Japan,
recognizing the continuing aftershocks of the Asian financial2 ANNUAL REPORT 2000

Poeeceseseseereeesreeesreercecee eee eee eeeneee®

crisis, provided 10 billion yen ($92.6 million) to support
innovative poverty reduction and related social development
projects on a grant basis, in line with ADB’s poverty
reduction strategy. The JFPR is administered by ADB and
is subject to all its procedures, including procurement,
evaluation, and monitoring.

Developing a long-term
strategic framework

ADB's vision is of a region free of poverty, and to this end,
extensive work was undertaken in 2000 to develop a long-term
strategic framework that will guide the work of ADB over the
next 15 years. Wide-ranging discussions were held with
member countries, development partners, civil society, and
an expert panel, and drew on the skills of ADB staff.

The strategic focus will be on achieving sustainable
economic growth, inclusive social development, and good
governance. In particular, the framework embraces the
philosophy and thrusts of the new private sector development strategy, and it recognizes the importance of regional
development activities and ADB's unique role as the region's
development bank. It also reaffirms commitment to the
international development goals. Core medium-term poverty
targets for 2005 are for each DMC to implement national
sustainable development strategies and eliminate gender
disparities in primary and secondary education. The
fundamental long-term target is to halve the incidence of
extreme poverty by 2015, compared with 1990.

Resident Mission Policy

ADB needs to be closer to its member countries. The
Resident Mission Policy, approved in February, is a major
step in this direction. The Policy provides for opening
resident missions in every DMC, where feasible. To this end,
resident missions were opened in the People’s Republic of
China and the Lao People’s Democratic Republic in 2000,
and approval was given to open missions in Mongolia and
Thailand. These new missions are a good complement to
the 13 resident missions previously established.

Microfinance Development Strategy

Despite the rapid growth in microfinance over the last twenty
years, the poor in many DMCs have no access to credit or
insurance. The Microfinance Development Strategy, approved
in June, will help change that. It will help create an enabling
policy environment for developing microfinance services and
strengthen the capacity of the poor to access these services.

General operations

In 2000, the Board of Directors met formally on 66 occasions,
including executive sessions, and held 30 informal meetings,
including briefings, discussion seminars, and presentations.
The Board approved $5.85 billion for 90 loans in 74 projects.
Of this, $4.26 billion was from OCR and $1.59 billion from ADF.

 

Board of Directors (December 2000)
Seated, left to right: Vice-President John Lintjer, Secretary Bindu N. Lohani, President Tadao Chino, Vice-President Myoung-Ho Shin

First row, standing, left to right: Yasuro Narita, Cahit Akinci, Patrick Thomas, C. Ramachandran, N. Cinnamon Dornsife, Julian H. Payne,
Uwe Henrich, Patricia Z. Riingen, Li Buqun, Chantale Yok-Min Wong, Ram Binod Bhattarai, Othman Jusoh

Second row, standing, left to right: Jose Miguel Cortes, Jeung-Hyun Yoon, John S. Lockhart, M. Faizur Razzaque, John Austin, Erik Johnsson,
Naoyuki Shinohara, Zhao Xiaoyu, Barry Holloway, Kh. Zaheer Ahmed, Stephen Baker, Jusuf AnwarForty percent of project approvals, excluding private sector
and technical assistance loans, had poverty reduction as the
primary or secondary objective.! The Board approved seven
equity investments in the private sector, amounting to
$78.15 million. It also approved directly, or through authority
delegated to the President, technical assistance grants
amounting to $171.99 million for 306 projects.

During the informal meetings, the Directors examined
a broad range of issues, including the redesign of ADB's
operational business processes, and country assistance plans
for 2000-2002 and 2001-2003.

33™ Annual Meeting

The 33 Annual Meeting of the Board of Governors was
held in Chiang Mai, Thailand, from 6 to 8 May 2000.

Membership

Turkmenistan became ADB's 59"" member in 2000.

Board committees”
Audit Committee

The 1999-2000 Audit Committee report underscored the
importance of independence and objectivity for both the
Office of the General Auditor (OGA) and the Operations
Evaluation Office (OEO). The Committee reported that its
new terms of reference, adopted in 1999, made it more
effective and more focused. It achieved its 2000 program
with fewer meetings than in previous years, although oversight of year 2000 operations was added to its program. In
2000, the Committee also formally adopted guidelines on
conflict of interest for itself.

Sixteen meetings were held, including one with the
external auditors (PricewaterhouseCoopers), to review
ADB's draft financial statements for 1999. With the
auditors’ contract expiring in December 2000, the
Committee also monitored the selection of the next auditors and recommended the final selection to the Board.

1 The classification system uses ADB objectives; projects are assigned
a maximum of two objectives: one primary and one optional
secondary. For example, a project aimed primarily at economic growth
might have secondary features for addressing social concerns.

2 The membership of Board committees is shown in Appendix 4.

2000 in Review: Board of Directors’ Report

Policy Papers and Reports Discussed

by the Board of Directors in 2000

Policy, Financial, and Administrative Papers

* Borrowing Program for 2000 25 January

* Membership of Portugal 25 January

* Resident Mission Policy 17 February

* Establishment of a Resident Mission in the People's
Republic of China 24 February

* Review of Service Charges for the Administration of
Grant Cofinancing from Bilateral Sources 14 March

* Review of the Asian Development Bank's Income Outlook and Allocation of 1999 Net Income 28 March

* Private Sector Development Strategy 30 March

* Partial Credit Guarantee Charges 13 April

¢ Establishment of a Resident Mission in Thailand 19 April

* Cooperation with Japan—Japan Fund for Poverty
Reduction 23 May

¢ Finance for the Poor—Microfinance Development
Strategy 6 June

* Cooperation with Spain—Technical Assistance Grant
Fund 28 June

* Cooperation with Denmark—Technical Assistance
Grant Fund 27 July

¢ Establishment of a Resident Mission in Mongolia
1 August

* Three-Year Rolling Work Program and Budget Framework (2001-2003) 5 October

* Seventh Replenishment of the Asian Development Fund
2 November

* Arrangements for Transfer of Project Development
Fund Grants from the Global Environment Facility
21 November

* Review of Papua New Guinea’s Classification Under
ADB's Graduation Policy 14 December

¢ ADB Institute—Work Program and Budget for 2001
15 December

¢ Establishment of the Development Effectiveness
Committee 20 December

Working Papers

* Promoting Good Governance: ADB's Medium-Term
Agenda and Action Plan 26 April

* Private Sector Operations—Strategic Directions and
Review 37 July

* Review of the Partial Risk Guarantee of the Asian
Development Bank 7 August

* Water for All: The Water Policy of the Asian Development Bank 7 September

* Performance-Based Allocation of ADF Resources
22 November

* The Long-Term Strategic Framework of the Asian
Development Bank (2001-2015) 18 December

3

eee eee eee eee eee ee ee ee ee4 ANNUAL REPORT 2000

Poeeceseseseereeesreeesreercecee eee eee eeeneee®

The Committee reviewed the work program of OGA
and requested it to report on the status of ADB's internal
controls. It requested OGA to review the need for an appeals
function for firms and individuals that ADB penalized for
corrupt activities. It also reviewed the accomplishments of
OEO and endorsed its work program. The Committee
endorsed the proposal to expand the number of categories

Reports Discussed

by the Audit Committee in 2000

 

Project Performance Audit Reports

Fisheries Sector Program (Philippines) 76 February

* Low-Income Housing Development Project (Fiji Islands)
9 August

¢ West New Britain Smallholder Development Project
(Papua New Guinea) 13 September

* Second Road Improvement Project (Sri Lanka)
13 September

* Second Agriculture Program (Lao People’s Democratic
Republic) 27 September

¢ Walawe Irrigation Improvement Project (Sri Lanka)
27 September

Technical Assistance Performance Audit Reports
¢ Advisory and Operational Technical Assistance Grants
to the Energy Sector in Mongolia 27 September

Impact Evaluation Studies

* Technical and Vocational Education Projects in
Malaysia, Pakistan, Papua New Guinea, and Sri Lanka
9 August

¢ Impact Evaluation Study of ADB’s Program of
Subregional Economic Cooperation in the Greater
Mekong Subregion 16 August

Reevaluation Studies

* Fuel Conversion Project (People's Republic of China)
9 August

* Health and Family Planning Services Project (Bangladesh)
13 September

Special Studies

* Social and Environmental Impacts of Selected
Hydropower Projects 19 January

* Country Assistance Program Evaluation (Viet Nam)
16 February

* Interim Assessment of ADB’s Lending to Thailand

During the Economic Crisis 16 February

Effectiveness of ADB Approaches and Assistance to

Poverty Reduction 23 February

+ Role of Nongovernment Organizations and CommunityBased Organizations in ADB Projects 16 August

of project performance from three to four: highly successful,
successful, less than successful, and unsuccessful.

The Committee's Annual Report included recommendations that ADB review the need for the appropriate independence and objectivity of the Operations Evaluation Office
and to formally designate the Vice-President (Finance and
Administration) as ADB’s Chief Financial Officer. These
recommendations are being considered by ADB.

Budget Review Committee

The Budget Review Committee met in April to review the
cost implications of implementing the Resident Mission
Policy; and in November to review Management's 2001
budget proposal, 2000 work achievements, and 2001 work
plans of ADB departments and offices.

At the April meeting, the Committee noted the need to
pay attention to cost-benefit aspects of the Resident Mission
Policy, and to organizational adjustments at headquarters
to effect decentralization. It found that delegated disbursement processing complied with established guidelines.

At the November meeting, the Committee requested
strengthening the coordination of external relations for

The Boards and Their Functions

ADB is governed by a Board of Governors, which, at the
end of 2000, consisted of 59 members (43 regional and
16 nonregional). Under Article 28 of ADB’s Charter, the
Board of Governors is vested with all the powers of ADB.
In turn, the Governors delegate their authority to the
Board of Directors, except for certain powers reserved
to them under the Charter.

The Board of Governors meets formally once a year
for ADB's Annual Meeting. The resolutions approved by
the Board of Governors in 2000 and its membership are
shown in Appendixes 1 and 2.

Under Article 28, the Board of Governors elects
a 12-member Board of Directors, eight elected by
regional members and four by nonregional members
(see Appendix 3). Each Director appoints an Alternate.
The President of ADB is the Chairperson of the Board
of Directors.

The Board of Directors performs its duties on a fulltime basis at ADB's headquarters in Manila, Philippines,
and meets in regular formal and executive sessions. The
Directors exercise their authority and functions through
their supervision of ADB's financial statements, their
approval of ADB’s administrative budget, and their review
and approval of policy documents and all loan, equity,
and technical assistance operations.resident and regional missions and representative offices.
It also examined policy and strategic issues, recommending
pragmatic implementation of the poverty reduction strategy,
while noting its resource-intensive nature. It emphasized
the importance of corporate governance. It noted the work
of the Anticorruption Unit in ensuring proper use of funds
and acknowledged the complexity of the law and policy
reform issues being tackled.

The Committee noted that improved teamwork, focus,
and controls in the Private Sector Group had enhanced the
mainstreaming of private sector activities in ADB operations
and improved the development impact of the Private Sector
Development Strategy. It also noted progress in mainstreaming social development policies and environmental
dimensions in operations, and establishing a nongovernment organization (NGO) center for improved NGO collabo
ration. It observed the nee

for better management and

coordination of economic and sector work, encouraging

greater development of staff
ity as a knowledge center.

capabilities and ADB's capact stressed the importance of

coordination between the Economics and Development
Resource Center and the ADB Institute.

In reviewing ADB's resources, the Committee welcomed
the steps being taken to facilitate preparation of the borrowing program by coordinating disbursement projections across
departments. It also noted that the INTEGRA Project—an
integrated, web-enabled computer system—would improve
disbursement programs and liquidity management, lead to a
better information base for cost-sharing between OCR and
ADF resources, increase staff efficiency, and ensure better linkages between resource allocations and strategic priorities. The
Committee encouraged the use of other efficiency measures.

The Committee noted the streamlining of the procure
ment and consultant selection mechanisms, the progress
of the ongoing review of loan products (including the
proposed London interbank offered rate), and the difficulties
of attracting commercial cofinancing for poverty reduction
projects. It noted with appreciation the establishment of the
Risk Management System. It recommended that project
evaluation include regional technical assistance, JFPR
activities, and policy evaluation. It observed the advantages
of technological changes in improving products and
services, and ADB's role in DMCs in spreading information
and communication technology.
The Committee stressed the importance of an effective
and responsive institutional structure to support the
implementation of the long-term and medium-term strategic
frameworks. It recommended that ADB continue to improve
its recruitment methods, including incentives, in the
traditionally higher paid financial sector.

 

 

2000 in Review: Board of Directors’ Report 5

eee eee eee eee eee ee ee ee ee

The Committee recommended approval of the budget
for 2001.

Inspection Committee

The Inspection Committee provided input into the Action
Plan for Strengthening the Inspection Function, approved
by the President in July. The Plan to improve outreach
included translating ADB's Inspection Policy: A Guidebook
into local languages, producing a leaflet—You Have a
Voice—on the inspection policy (also to be translated into
local languages), and conducting briefings on the policy
and procedures in DMCs.

No requests for inspection were received in 2000;
however, in November a complaint was received under the
inspection process, to which Management responded as
required. The complainants were given the option to make a
written request to the Inspection Committee for an inspection
of the project if they are not satisfied with the response.

Further information on the inspection policy is available
on ADB's web site at http://www.adb.org/inspection.

Directors’ visits

The Directors made three visits to DMCs in 2000: to India
from 19 February to 4 March; the Lao People’s Democratic
Republic (Lao PDR) and Papua New Guinea (PNG) from
19 August to 1 September; and the Philippines from 14 to
17 September. In India, the Directors had discussions with
representatives of the Government of India including the
Finance Minister, state chief ministers, and other officials.
Talks were also held with stakeholders in ADB projects,
NGOs, women's groups, and business leaders. The
Directors noted that ADB-funded projects and programs
were generally on track. The Directors recommended
closer monitoring by the India Resident Mission of project
implementation and compliance with loan covenants at
the state level. In the Lao PDR and PNG, the Directors
visited several projects in each country and held extensive
discussions with government officials, donors, and NGOs.
The Directors noted that both governments need
considerable assistance in building stronger institutions,
and, particularly in the case of PNG, reducing the presence
of poorly performing state-owned enterprises. The
Directors also noted the need to resolve the graduation
issue for PNG. The visit to northern Luzon, Philippines,
provided the Directors with information about local level
planning, stakeholder concerns, and the experiences of
implementing agencies.Special Theme

Develop a Childevelop a child, develop a nation. Address the needs of the youngest and most vulnerable members of society,
and you take the first and most vital steps to economic and social development. Few people would disagree
with these assertions, but what is the record of the Asian and Pacific region? The Asian Development Bank's
(ADB) President Tadao Chino has said, “It is the vulnerable, especially women and children, who bear the brunt
of poverty.” If ADB’s vision of a region free of poverty is to be realized, today’s children need to be healthy, well nourished,
and educated. The region has made great strides in health, nutrition, and education, but not evenly. Sadly, for many,

today’s reality remains grim.

¢ — Six million children under five years of age—more
than half of the world's total—die each year in developing Asia. Underweight children account for more than
half of these deaths; of the rest, most die from diseases
that could be prevented by vaccination. Many who die
are underweight at birth owing to the poor health of their
mothers; malnutrition and poverty are mutually reinforcing
across generations.

¢ Three quarters of the world's underweight and
stunted children are in Asia; and half the children of South
Asia—by far the highest rate in the world—are underweight
or stunted.

¢ Three quarters of those suffering from vitamin A,
iodine, and iron deficiencies—mostly young children and
their mothers—are in Asia. Tiny amounts of vitamins and
minerals are needed by the human body for normal
growth and development and good health. Their absence
costs lives and causes disabilities, including mental
impairment.

¢ More than 30 million Asian children between the
ages of 6 and 11 are not enrolled in school—the majority
are girls who will become tomorrow’s illiterate women.

¢ About 150 million Asian children between the
ages of 5 and 14 have to work. Half of them have to work
full time.

In sum, the world’s underweight, stunted, and
micronutrient-deficient children and mothers are concentrated in Asia. Also, the incidence of enrollment of girls in
schools is low, particularly in South Asia.

The consequences of malnutrition are staggering:
unsafe fertility, premature death, disability, lifelong
susceptibility to illness, poor cognitive and learning skills,
low achievement in school, low wages, and weak capacity
to invest in the quality of the next generation's children.

The economic costs of malnutrition are high,' but
improvements could be made at low cost, with political will

and in concerted partnership. Judicious investments can
improve the health, nutrition, education, and environment
of children. Yet, within the region, shares of national budgets
allocated to basic education and children’s health and
nutrition are often low. The children of the poor are especially vulnerable and are often denied access to essential
health care, adequate nutrition, and basic education?

Productivity and prosperity depend largely on how
effectively the children of the region are prepared for the
future. If the region is to sustain economic momentum,
it has to ensure that young children survive, grow, and
develop to their maximum potential. The child’s ability
to be educated and subsequent productivity as an adult
can be seriously compromised by poor health and
nutrition, and a lack of a safe and caring environment
during infancy and early childhood.

ADB's obligation is clear: promote services for children
and break the poverty cycle.

The importance of child development

The most critical stage in the life of each human being is
the period up to age three. This is when the brain matures
and personality develops, and when psychological and social
patterns of bonding with primary caregivers and the
community at large are established.

Pregnancy and infancy are when the intersecting health
and nutrition needs of women and children are greatest
and those needs must be at the core of efforts to improve
human development (Box J on page 9). The health of the
mother is crucial for the health of the child. Strategies that
care for the child and mother—including legal protection
of her political, social, and economic rights—are more
effective than approaches that focus exclusively on the child.
Preparing for pregnancy (especially the first) is critical

1 Horton, S., 1999, “Opportunities for Investments in Nutrition in Low-Income Asia,” Asian Development Review, Volume 17 (2): 246-273.

2 Basic education is defined as the minimum set of knowledge and skills necessary to improve quality of life and participate in national development. The period of basic education is nine years (six of primary education plus three of lower secondary), usually for children between
the ages of 6 and 15. Many countries in the region have extended or are extending the period of compulsory education from six to nine years
(or more) as social and economic conditions require higher levels of knowledge and skills.8 ANNUAL REPORT 2000

Poeeceseseseereeesreeesreercecee eee eee eeeneee®

Infants with Low Birthweight,
1995-1999
(percent)

0 5 10 15 20 25 30 «35

Middle East and
North Africa

Latin America |
and Caribbean

    
 

East Asia and Pacific

CEE/CIS* and
Baltic States

a Refers to Central and Eastern Europe/Commonwealth of Independent States.

Source: United Nations Children’s Fund. The State of the World's Children 2001.

Under-Fives Suffering from Moderate
and Severe Stunting, 1995-2000
(percent)

0 10 20 30 40 50

 
  
   
 
 

South Asia EE}

Middle East and

North Africa [a

Latin America PP}
and Caribbean

CEE/CIS* and
Baltic States

a Refers to Central and Eastern Europe/Commonwealth of Independent States.
Source: United Nations Children’s Fund. The State of the World's Children 2001.

Factors Contributing to Child's Nutrition,
1970-1995 (percent)

Eder)
me Tie)
Food Availability
Dray 26%
ee ten
cee

RCC EU!
By
Pe

 

Source: United Nations Administrative Coordinating Committee/Subcommittee on
Nutrition 2000.

because antenatal conditions influence neural and
metabolic development of the fetus, and establish a pattern
for life. Small, undernourished mothers are likely to have
premature or underweight children who will be stunted by
age three. These children will experience developmental
delays and mental impairment, and suffer chronic
susceptibility to infections in infancy and metabolic
disorders such as diabetes and heart disease in midlife.

In the later preschool years, social skills and early
cognition are critical areas of development. Children lacking
sufficient stimulation at home can benefit greatly from
specialized programs in the early primary years, and poor
children in many countries benefit from community-based
programs that integrate food and health care in homes and
community centers. Toddlers and older preschoolers thrive
in early education programs when these are interactive and
participatory, and develop skills for social engagement and
cooperation. The early school years also provide an
opportunity to correct health and nutrition problems that
may impede learning, memory, reasoning, and achievement.

Special attention has to be given to the girl child,
whose physical growth, mental development, and level
of education determine the quality of the next generation’s
children. Discrimination against girls can limit their access
to adequate nutrition and health care, so that the small child
eventually becomes a small mother, whose risk of dying in
first pregnancy is 10 times greater than a woman of normal
height and weight. The same order of risk applies to
premature and small (less than 2,500 grams) babies in the
first year of life. Concerted efforts are necessary to protect
the health of the girl child through adolescence and young
motherhood, recognizing that the potential of the child is
related directly to the educational and social status of the
mother. A recent study’ of 63 developing countries shows
that a woman's educational achievement and social status
are the main determinants of a child’s nutrition, with food
availability and environmental factors being less important.

A woman's education and social status have a strong
and positive impact on her child’s survival and prospects.
The educated and empowered Asian woman is the key to
the survival, growth, mental acuity, and psychosocial
development of young children. Improving her status sets
in motion lifelong prospects for learning and earning with
benefits to families, communities, and nations. Improving
her nutrition and capacity to care for young children elevates
the educational attainment of nations. Improving her
education and social status lowers her fertility rate by

3 Smith, L. and L. Haddad, 2000, “Explaining Child Malnutrition in Developing Countries: A Cross-Country Analysis,” Research Report 111, Washington,

DC: International Food Policy Research Institute.encouraging early employment, later marriage, and longer
birth spacing—all of which benefit the survival, growth, and
development of her children. When family planning and
reproductive health services respond to the needs of educated
women, fertility declines further in response to changing perceptions of ideal family size. Mainstreaming gender concerns
in social development programs is essential for success.

Why invest in children?

The reasons for investing in the potential of poor children
are both compelling and self-evident. Human capital—
investment in our brains and our bodies—is essential for
economic development, and enriched human development
may reduce poverty more sustainably than any other

Box 1. Investing in

Special Theme: Develop a Child 9

eee eee eee ee ee ee ee ee ee

Micronutrient Status in Asia
(percent)

0 20 40 60 80

Population at Risk
of lodine Deficiency

Pregnant Women,
Anemic

Preschoolers, Anemic
MS East Asia
Ml Rest of Asia

Source: United Nations Administrative Coordinating Committee/Subcommittee on
Nutrition 2000.

 

ADB, in collaboration with the United Nations Children’s
Fund (UNICEF), recently conducted a seven-country study’
to analyze the costs of chronic undernutrition and the
benefits of improved strategies to eliminate malnutrition.
ADB and UNICEF concluded that well-designed nutrition
interventions are highly cost-effective.

Economic costs of child malnutrition. The study
showed that the cost of malnutrition in low-income Asian
economies reaches at least 3-4 percent of gross domestic
product annually. In India, loss of growth was 3 percent
from reduced adult productivity from protein energy
malnutrition, iodine deficiency disorders (IDD), and iron
deficiency anemia (IDA), and 1 percent from cognitive
impairment induced by iodine deficiency. Among manual
laborers, productivity losses are up to 9 percent for severely
stunted workers. Losses from IDA are 17 percent for workers
engaged in heavy physical labor and 5 percent for
moderately active workers. Losses resulting from cognitive deficits for malnourished children are 10 percent for
stunted individuals, 4 percent for IDA, and 10 percent for
IDD. The cost of malnutrition is staggering.

Cost-effectiveness of nutrition interventions.
Nutritional deficiencies can be prevented. Promoting
breastfeeding, iodizing salt, fortifying staples (cooking oil or
sugar) with vitamin A, providing semiannual doses of vitamin
A, and giving iodine injections and daily oral iron tablets to
pregnant women each costs less than $25 per disabilityadjusted life year saved. These nutrition interventions rank
competitively with immunizations; school clinics; and health,

nutrition, and family planning information. Other nutrition
options, which are more expensive but still a good investment,
include providing improved complementary feeding for
children, and giving nutritional supplements to children and
pregnant women. The long-standing practice of untargeted
or wrongly targeted food subsidies in Asia has been expensive and inefficient. Investment per head in fortifying staples
and complementary foods for infants is one tenth that of
supplementation programs.

Returns on nutrition investments.” Targeted supplementation to at-risk groups (iron for pregnant mothers, vitamin
A for under-fives) is more cost-effective than fortification
although the latter is more sustainable as incomes rise and
households gain access to higher quality primary health
care. Fortification is the right public policy choice, providing the least-cost method of reducing clinical nutrition
deficiency. It is three times as productive as vitamin A
supplementation for under-fives or iron supplementation for
pregnant women,
four times as productive as general iodine
supplementation,
and twice as
productive as
targeted supplementation
for women of
reproductive
age.

1 Mason, John, Joseph Hunt, David Parker, and Urban Jonsson, “Investing in Child Nutrition in Asia," in Asian Development Review, 1999, Asian Devel
opment Bank, Volume 17, Numbers 1 and 2.

2 World Bank, 1994, Enriching Lives: Overcoming Vitamin and Mineral Malnutrition in Developing Countries. Washington, DC.10 ANNUAL REPORT 2000

Poeeceseseseereeesreeesreercecee eee eee eeeneee®

strategy. ADB promotes human development policies that
provide children of the poor the opportunities for growth.

Investing in children raises the efficiency of public
expenditure and reduces the need for subsequent public
resources to compensate for failure to address children's
needs. The earlier the learning capacity of the child is
addressed, the better. Investments designed to improve
sanitation, health, nutrition, and education for children often
benefit the whole community and allow mothers to pursue
earning and education goals.

Investing in children strengthens the quality and
productivity of the future labor force by developing the
human brain and its capacity for curiosity, reasoning, and
inquiry. Expanding a child’s capacity for learning results in
higher incomes for the family and permits investment in
the quality of the next generation. Investments in primary
education are powerful spurs to equitable growth.

Investing in the education of girls can address gender
biases and break the cycle of poverty and underachievement.
Girls who participate in early childhood programs are more
likely to go to and stay in school. Special programs in health
and nutrition can provide incentives to parents to enroll and

ADB's Health Sector Lending,* by Country
(1978-2000) ($ million)

Total 7
Bangladesh 134.1 6.6
Bhutan 10.0 00.5
Cambodia 20.0 1.0
Hong Kong, China 19.5 1.0
Indonesia 743.4 36.7
Kyrgyz Republic 41 0.2
Lao PDR 25.0 1.2
Malaysia 181.5 9.0
Marshall Islands 10.6 0.5
Micronesia 8.0 0.4
Mongolia 15.9 0.8
Myanmar 63.1 3.1
Pakistan 264.5 13.1
Papua New Guinea 119.9 5.9
Philippines 79.9 3.9
Singapore 19.0 0.9
Sri Lanka 35.4 1
Tajikistan 79 0.4
Thailand 150.0 74
Viet Nam 111.3 55
Total 2,023.2 100.0

Numbers may not add because of rounding.
a Includes multisector loans, and health components of other loans.

keep girls in school, and ensure that gender concerns are part
of social protection programs.

Investing in children will help nations meet the
international development goals (IDGs) to which they—and
ADB—have subscribed. Three of the seven IDGs relate
directly to children and two others target maternal health
(Box 2). ADB and its developing member countries (DMCs)
also support the United Nations Convention on the Rights
of the Child, which requires governments to work toward
ensuring the development of each child. By agreeing to
follow a framework of principles (Box 3), Asian governments
have pledged to improve health and nutrition for all children
and to provide essential education as a right and as the key
to equitable growth and sustainable development.

Status of children in the region

Health and nutrition

Over the last 40 years, the health of children in Asia and
the Pacific has improved. Infant and under-five mortality
rates have been more than halved, in line with global
trends. East Asia and the Pacific witnessed the most rapid
improvement. Throughout the region, access to potable
water supplies has improved and the urban-rural gap has
narrowed. The health and nutrition of preschoolers has
changed for the better as well, although progress has been
uneven across the region. For example, in Bangladesh
and Central Asia, average child size actually fell in the
1990s. Also, while life expectancy for today's newborn
in South Asia is more than 10 years longer than a child
born in the 1960s, it is seven years less than for newborns in East Asia and the Pacific. Infant and under-five
mortality rates in South Asia, except for Sri Lanka, are
among the highest in the world. Sanitation is also a problem in South Asia, with only one third of the total
population—one fifth of the rural population—having
access to adequate sanitation facilities.

Micronutrient deficiencies cause death and disability
among the region's children. Vitamin A deficiency is
implicated in a substantial proportion of maternal and underfive deaths. Major supplement programs are in place to raise
vitamin A status in the region; but in South Asia, only one
child in four actually receives them.

lodine deficiency disorders are the leading cause of
mental disability in the world. lodized salt is the costeffective solution. The Universal Salt Ilodization initiative,
led by the United Nations Children’s Fund (UNICEF),
increased the percentage of the world’s households usingiodized salt from one fourth to over two thirds in the late
1990s; but a billion Asians still do not use iodized salt
and lack sufficient iodine in their diets. In Bangladesh and
Central Asia, palpable goiter is endemic. This means the

Box 2. Adopting the Internati

 

Following the agreements and resolutions of various
conferences organized in the first half of the 1990s—such
as the World Summit for Children, the International Conference on Nutrition, the International Conference on Population and Development, the World Summit for Social Development—world leaders identified broad international
development goals. Three relate directly and all relate
indirectly to children. Two target maternal health.

* Reduce the incidence of extreme poverty by half
between 1990 and 2015;

* Attain 100 percent primary school enrollment by 2015;

al Developm

Special Theme: Develop a Child 11

eee eee eee ee ee ee ee ee ee

average child is deprived of 13-14 intelligence quotient (IQ)
points that can never be recovered. The solutions are to
improve iodine nutrition for pregnant women so that the
embryo’s brain development does not suffer, and ensure

 

Goals

* Eliminate gender disparities in primary and
secondary education by 2005;

* Reduce infant and child mortality by two thirds
between 1990 and 2015;'

* Reduce maternal mortality ratio? by three quarters
between 1990 and 2015;

* Provide access for all to reproductive health services
by 2015;

* Ensure that every country implements a national sustainable development strategy by 2005, and reverses the
loss of environmental resources by 2015.

1 Infant mortality rate is the annual number of deaths of children less than one year of age expressed per 1,000 live births.
2 Maternal mortality ratio is the number of deaths per 10,000 births attributable to pregnancy, childbearing, or puerperal complications, i.e., within six

weeks following childbirth.

Box 3. Recognizing the Ri of Children

The United Nations (UN) Convention on the Rights of the
Child was adopted by the UN General Assembly in November
1989 and entered into force in September 1990.

* Parties shall ensure to the maximum extent possible
the survival and development of the child.

* Parties recognize the right of the child to enjoy
the highest attainable standard of health and facilities
for treating illness and rehabilitating health. Parties shall
strive to ensure that no child is deprived of his or her
right of access to such health care services.

* Parties shall pursue full implementation of this right
and, in particular, shall take appropriate measures
to diminish infant and child mortality; ensure that
necessary medical assistance and health care are
provided to all children with an

emphasis on developing primary
health care; combat disease and
malnutrition, including within the
framework of primary health care,
by applying readily available
technology and by providing
adequate nutritious foods and
clean drinking water, taking
into consideration the dangers
and risks of environmental

_ pollution; ensure appropriate
_. prenatal and postnatal health

 
 
   
 
   
 

care for mothers; ensure that all segments of society, in
particular parents and children, are informed, have access to
education, and are supported in the use of basic knowledge
of child health and nutrition, the advantages of breastfeeding,
hygiene and environmental sanitation, and the prevention of
accidents; and develop preventive health care guidance for
parents, and family planning education and services.

* Parties recognize the right of the child to education
and with a view to achieving this right progressively and
on the basis of equal opportunity, they shall, in particular
make primary education compulsory and available free
to all; encourage the development of different forms of
secondary education, including general and vocational
education, make them available and accessible to every
child, and take appropriate measures such as introducing free education and offering financial assistance in
case of need; make higher education accessible to all on
the basis of capacity by every appropriate means; make
educational and vocational information and guidance
available and accessible to all children; and take measures
to encourage regular attendance at schools and to reduce
dropout rates.

* Parties recognize the right of the child to be protected
from economic exploitation and from performing any work
that is likely to be hazardous or to interfere with the child's
education, or to be harmful to the child's health or physical,
mental, spiritual, moral, or social development.12 ANNUAL REPORT 2000

Poeeceseseseereeesreeesreercecee eee eee eeeneee®

 
 
 
 
 
 
  

Ensuring that salt is iodized
and wheat flour fortified
with iron and vitamin A can
provide dramatic benefits for
children's health.

adequate iodine in early
infant feeding that complements breastfeeding.

Anemia, a form of iron
deficiency, is the most prevalent
nutritional problem in the world. In
Asia, more than a billion people are irondeficient. In South Asia, 9 out of 10 pregnant
women are anemic‘ and at higher risk of dying
during pregnancy. An ADB study showed that at least
65,000 anemic pregnant women die each year in lowincome Asia. For about half of Asia’s infants and schoolage children, anemia leads to poor motor skills and
delayed speech and reading. A regional initiative to reduce
anemia is urgently needed (Box 4).

Education

Nearly 90 percent of East and Southeast Asian children and
almost 70 percent of South Asia's children are now enrolled
in primary school. Yet, more than 30 million children

between the ages of 6 and 11—the majority girls—are not
enrolled. Most are from families with uneducated parents, live
in remote areas, come from ethnic minority groups, live in
urban slums, or are from families that are displaced.
Children—especially poor children in remote areas—
often have to walk long distances to school.
For the young or undernourished, the
effort can become too great. Children
who are ill, tired, or hungry have limited
attention spans and are unlikely to
benefit from school. Those whose
mother tongue is a minority language
face even more difficulties. These
children often drop out of school.
Children also drop out of school
because their parents cannot afford to
pay for transportation, school supplies,
or uniforms, or because their labor
may be needed at home or they have to contribute to the
family’s income. Most children drop out within the first two
grades. Most dropouts are girls, often because of the
perception that there is less value in educating daughters.
In the Philippines, only 70 of every 100 children who enter
Grade 1 finish primary school; in Bangladesh, the number
falls to 65 out of 100; and in Cambodia to 45 out of 100.
Children from low-income groups in Indonesia are much less
likely to attend lower secondary school than other children.

   
 
  
 
  
  

e

4 United Nations, 2000, Fourth Report on the World Nutrition Situation 2000, Geneva: Administrative Coordinating Committee/Subcommittee on Nutrition.

Box 4. Eliminating lIro

 

Iron deficiency anemia (IDA) afflicts 60 percent of the
region’s pregnant women (88 percent in South Asia), half
the women of reproductive age, and 40 percent of
preschoolers in Asia. About 20 percent of the 500,000
maternal deaths in developing countries worldwide are
caused by IDA. Although the rates of maternal mortality
and child cognitive impairment can be lowered by reducing
IDA, no clear strategy for doing this has emerged.

ADB is supporting three regional public-private
initiatives to address the problem of IDA. Two regional
studies on food fortification and rice breeding are ongoing,
and a third initiative is being developed.

The regional food fortification project in the People's
Republic of China, India, Indonesia, Pakistan, Thailand, and
Viet Nam focuses on fortifying wheat flour and condiments,
such as soy sauce and fish sauce, with iron. With cooperation
from government food regulators and food manufacturers,
micronutrient malnutrition will be reduced. In addition, a

regional investment plan based on country studies will be
developed; and regional workshops on food technology,
regulation, and trade will be conducted.

A regional rice plant breeding project is being
conducted in Bangladesh, Indonesia, Philippines, and Viet
Nam through a consortium led by ADB and including the
International Rice Research Institute and the International
Food Policy Research Institute. A three-year research
program will test varieties of rice with high densities of
iron and zinc to ensure that the yield is adequate, iron
and zinc are available to consumers, consumers are willing to eat the rice, producing and disseminating the new
varieties are feasible for national agricultural research
systems and seed companies, and the rice will be affordable
to the poor.

The third regional activity will aim to set up production
systems and build capacity for improved regulation, quality
control, and trade of fortified flour and salt.Special Theme: Develop a Child 13

eee eee eee ee ee ee ee ee ee

Box 5. Supporting Early Childhood Development

Early childhood development (ECD) programs support the
biological and mental development of children from birth
through the early years of primary school. They address
the life cycle stages crucial to mental acuity, learning, and
achievement: pregnancy through age three, the toddler
phase for older preschoolers, and the early adjustment years
in formal schooling.

ECD programs provide integrated child health,
nutrition, and early education programs for children up to
six years of age, often followed by an enriched ECD-friendly
curriculum and learning environment in the early primary
grades. Convergent services in centers and homes, tailored
interventions within the life cycle, and partnerships between
local governments, communities, and families combine to
help each child realize his/her potential.

At the World Summits for Children and Education For
All (EFA), governments in Asia and the Pacific committed
themselves to major improvements in child health, nutrition,
and educational enrollment by 2000; but few of these goals
were reached. The EFA global review in 2000 concluded
that child readiness for learning had been underemphasized
and that ECD programs are vital to reaching poor children
and children in remote areas who might enroll late or never,
and are more likely to drop out of primary school.

ECD programs deliver impacts at lower cost because
they capture synergies that sector-specific programs cannot.
Because ECD combines nutrition, health, psychosocial care,
and cognitive stimulation for infants, toddlers, and young
children (with mixes appropriate to each age group), these

There is sometimes a misconception among the poor
that attending school brings little benefit. It is difficult to
dispel this notion when the schooling provided is inadequate and fails to meet minimum standards, or the schools
are under-resourced and badly managed. And this is often
the case. Many children in the region complete their basic
education without mastering the skills needed to participate
effectively in society. (Few of the region's schools teach even
the rudiments of computer literacy, and still fewer are
connected to the Internet.) Poor education usually results
from insufficient teacher training, overcrowded and illequipped classrooms, badly designed curricula, inadequate
instructional materials, and defective facilities.

Early childhood development (ECD) projects focus on
mothers and children (normally from birth through eight
years) and aim to ensure that children achieve adequate
health and nutrition as well as mental stimulation and
preparation for learning (Box 5). ECD activities—nutritional
supplement and education, essential child health services,

synergies optimize impact and lower unit costs. Children
with a preschool background are better socialized, are less
likely to drop out, adjust more quickly to formal learning,
and achieve better results. Healthy, nourished preschoolers
adjust best and achieve most.

Poverty reduction is best sustained when the lives of
young children are transformed. An ECD Project (19982003) in the Philippines—cofinanced by ADB and the World
Bank—is doing just that for five million children. About
170 local government units with the highest concentration
of children at risk—based on indicators of undernutrition,
mortality, and primary school dropout rates—are being
targeted. The novel partnership between national and local
governments and communities is reflected in cost-sharing
based on the local government's ability to pay and the
allocation of responsibilities to ensure ownership. The
national government, through the development
budget and loan proceeds,
provides support systems
to the local agencies.

 
 
 
  

ADB is helping
ensure children
can achieve their
genetic

potential and is
preparing them
with the skills
they will need.

and psychosocial and cognitive stimulation—are costeffective ways of reducing dropout rates and improving
learning and achievement. Yet, only a small percentage of
young children benefit from ECD, mostly from middle- and
upper-income groups. Investing in the needs of very young
children, especially children of the poor, is an effective
strategy for enhancing their capacity to learn and benefit
from schooling. ADB is increasingly supporting ECD.

Environment

In the early stages of Western industrialization, children
carried canaries in cages down mine shafts to alert adult
workers of odorless gases seeping through rock fissures.
When the canary died, the workers ran. In many ways,
children are the sacrificial canaries of industrializing Asia,
mute victims of an increasingly polluted environment.
Respiratory infections and mental impairment are ever
more common. With Asia’s urbanization continuing14 ANNUAL REPORT 2000

Poeeceseseseereeesreeesreercecee eee eee eeeneee®

ADB's Education Sector Lending,? By Country
(1970-2000) ($ million)

Ke) C1 7
Bangladesh 498.3 9.9
Bhutan 9.4 0.2
Cambodia 47.2 0.9
Cook Islands 22 0.1
Indonesia 2,167.3 43.0
Kazakhstan 65.0 13
Korea, Republic of 56.7 11
Kyrgyz Republic 61.3 1.2
Lao PDR 53.3 1.1
Malaysia 258.8 5.1
Maldives 63 0.1
Marshall Islands 14.8 0.3
Mongolia 15.5 0.3
Nepal 56.1 1.1
Pakistan 571.0 11:3
Philippines 279.2 5.5
Papua New Guinea 55.9 1A
Samoa 7.0 0.1
Singapore 22.0 0.4
Sri Lanka 199.9 4.0
Tajikistan 7.6 0.2
Thailand 360.7 7.2
Uzbekistan 97.0 1.9
Viet Nam 129.0 2.6
Total 5,042.0 100.0

Numbers may not add because of rounding.
a Includes multisector loans, and education components of other loans

apace, the impact of pollution on the health and cognitive
development of children will get worse.

In cities and towns throughout Asia, lead pollutes the
air and takes the vibrancy from children’s brains and limbs.
Children working in some areas of the People’s Republic of
China have been found to have blood lead levels far in excess
of levels considered injurious in some countries, with the
consequent risk to intelligence and growth. Before an ADBfinanced project to improve Metro Manila's air quality led
to a ban on leaded gas in the Philippines, the average child
in Manila was at risk of developing with nearly five IQ
points less than a child raised in a nonlead environment.

In many Asian cities, children are employed as dumpsite
scavengers, a job that exposes them to toxic wastes and
increases their risk of infection. Other children face the even
more widely damaging effects of poor sanitation and unhealthy

water. These children are often physically stunted and mentally
dulled. They enter school later and retain what they are taught
at a lower rate than children who meet their genetic potential.

In rural environments, pesticide runoff into water tables
damages immature respiratory and pulmonary functions in
children, with disabling effects in later life. And in both rural
and urban areas, water is often polluted by untreated sewage,
chemical discharges, spilled toxic materials, salt from
irrigation schemes, and atmospheric pollutants dissolved in
rainwater.

Especially vulnerable children

All children are vulnerable, the poor especially so. Many poor
children are exploited. In Asia, particularly South Asia, many
millions of children toil as laborers, mostly in rural areas
under bonded or other restrictive conditions. An estimated
3.8 million Asian children suffer work injuries a year,
resulting in 1.5 million disabilities and 19,000 fatalities.
Several hundred thousand children simply live on Asia's
streets. The numbers increased in the late 1990s because
of the financial crisis—fourfold in Indonesia, according to an
ADB survey—and are still rising with increased urbanization.
They are exposed to pollution and sexual exploitation (Box 6).
Asia has a million orphans of AIDS victims. Many are
ostracized, some are themselves HIV-positive.
Nongovernment organizations (NGOs) are among the
strongest advocates of improved conditions for children.
ADB is supporting a special program for Indonesia's street
children through a health, nutrition, and educational support
initiative being implemented by the Government and NGOs.

Partnerships for children

The challenge is to give the region's children the health,
nutrition, knowledge, skills, and opportunities needed to
realize their full potential. Investments in children today
will ensure that tomorrow's adults are empowered and
productive. The challenge cannot be met by ADB alone;
fortunately, others are also rising to meet it.

UNICEF focuses exclusively on children. Many bilateral
and multilateral organizations promote better understanding
of, and increased attention to, the problems of child labor,
street children, and poor and abandoned children.

International and local NGOs are very active. Local NGOs
often have the greatest knowledge of poor children in isolated

5 Asian Development Bank, 1999. “Water in the 21‘ Century,” Annual Report 1999, Singapore: Asian Development Bank.or marginalized communities. The private sector, through
philanthropic work and subcontracted service delivery, can
often provide cost-effective essential social services.

Most important are DMC governments and local
authorities themselves. They are responsible for the major
programs of education, health care, and water supply and
sanitation. They must be convinced to place children high
on their list of national priorities. Poverty agreements,
currently being prepared between ADB and its DMCs, can
help make this happen.

ADB support for children

Policy and strategic framework

ADB has long recognized human development as a cornerstone of overall social and economic development, and has
prioritized support for investments in women and children as
the most effective way to promote human development. Its
1994 population policy shows the clear link between maternal
health and child health, and between maternal education and
family size. The 1998 policy on gender and development
emphasizes the need to support activities that improve
women’s access to social infrastructure services. The most
effective investment in the health and education of children

Box 6. Mariam Finds a ie

Mariam lives in Ghifari shelter in Yogyakarta, Indonesia.
She had been living on the streets for six years before
she ended up here.

When Mariam was eight, someone poisoned her
father. The shock caused her mother to die of a heart attack.
Mariam, orphaned, was then put in the care of her uncle.
She was raped at the age of 10. Mariam took to the streets,
where she was subjected to more sexual abuse. A police
officer took her to the Ghifari shelter in 1999.

There are 500 Mariams in Yogyakarta, each with
a distressing story to tell. A 1999 ADB survey of
12 Indonesian cities found that girls make up 20 percent
of Indonesia‘s estimated 170,000 street children, yet
programs for street children have usually concentrated
on boys. An ADB project is changing this. Girl street
children who are victims of sexual abuse or prostitution
are receiving counseling, vocational training, and health
services through a $1 million project financed by the
Japan Fund for Poverty Reduction (for more on the Japan
Fund for Poverty Reduction see page 140). Local nongovernment organizations are implementing the project.

Special Theme: Develop a Child 15

eee eee eee ee ee ee ee ee ee

is an investment in the health and education of their mothers.
The 1999 Poverty Reduction Strategy requires resources to be
targeted on projects benefiting women and children.

The health policy, also approved in 1999, endorses the
shift in ADB’s health investments toward primary health
care, the area most likely to benefit poor mothers and
children. Investments in primary health care as a proportion of total sector investment rose from 36 percent between
1978 and 1991 to 66 percent since 1992.

The draft water policy, for Board of Directors’ consideration in 2001, recognizes the special role of women in ensuring
the health and well-being of families, both as principal agents
for fetching water and preventing the spread of waterborne
diseases, and as highly productive farmers and irrigators.

The draft education policy, developed in 2000, also
supports investments in women and children. ADB support
for education has shifted toward basic education—from
11 percent of the total education sector portfolio in the 1970s
and 1980s to over 40 percent in the 1990s. ADB is also a major
partner in Education for All, a global movement to ensure
availability of basic education to all children.

ADB's draft long-term strategic framework, developed
in 2000, calls for greater emphasis on social development
through direct and indirect interventions. The framework also
advocates a policy and reform program, wherever necessary,
to ensure adequate allocations for health and education and
provide access to basic social services by the poor.

ADB operations

ADB investments in education, health, and nutrition—the
sectors that most clearly target women and children—have
accounted for about 8 percent ofits total lending portfolio since
1990. This proportion is low compared with other multilateral
development banks, but investment in other sectors—
microcredit, water supply and sanitation, environment, and
rural and urban development, for example—adds substantial
amounts to ADB's overall support for children. ADB's focus
on poverty reduction is increasing the flow of resources for
programs supporting the poor, especially women and children.

ADB's recent support for children has been innovative.
Two sector development program loans (Box 7 on page 16)
to Indonesia in 1998 and 1999 identified policy reforms that
could lessen the impact of the financial crisis on the poor and
improve the delivery of basic social services.

Basic education programs in Bangladesh and Pakistan
aim to improve girls’ access to education and provide incentives for girls to remain in school (Box 8 on page 16). The
Philippines’ Nonformal Education Project has so far brought
literacy to 465,000 learners, primarily poor rural women, and16 ANNUAL REPORT 2000

Poeeceseseseereeesreeesreercecee eee eee eeeneee®

established an alternative system for providing the equivalent
of primary and secondary education to out-of-school youth
through flexible delivery arrangements. Services under this
Project were subcontracted by the Government to NGOs, community groups, and local government units to ensure that they
were responsive, demand-driven, and cost-effective.
ADB's response to the regional needs for child
immunization has been robust (Box 9). Immunization

Supporting Indonesia's Chil

programs and the control of childhood infectious diseases
are being funded in Bangladesh, Cambodia, Indonesia,
Philippines, and Viet Nam. An early childhood development project in the Philippines and a communicable
diseases control project in Indonesia both support an
integrated management of childhood illness’ initiative,
operating at health centers and in communities to prevent
killer diseases.

en in Crisis

 

The Asian financial crisis left Indonesia facing rising unemployment and inflation, and a risk of reduced expenditure on
social services. ADB worked closely with the Government to
help provide a social safety net, and to help prevent the loss
of a generation of children at risk of suffering from malnutrition and increased disease, and dropping out of school.

ADB prepared two sector development programs: to
support policy reforms to improve the delivery, quality, and
equity of basic education and health and nutrition services;
and to ensure continued access to basic social services by
the poor. The projects provided scholarships for junior
secondary school, funds to enable midwives in health centers to expand outreach programs, maintain services for
pregnant women, and set up feeding programs for pregnant women, infants, and young children.

To reach beneficiaries quickly, ADB funds were transferred directly to them from the Central Bank of Indonesia

through the post offices. District committees determined how
the funds should be allocated among schools and health
centers. Schools established committees with parent and community representation to choose students who would receive
scholarships. Village midwives, health center staff, and
community health volunteers identified pregnant women and
young children for special monitoring and coverage by outreach and nutrition programs. Monitoring by nongovernment
organizations revealed that targeting was highly successful.

During the first two and a half years of implementation,
1,945,868 children received junior secondary school
scholarships and 127,409 state elementary schools received
block grants; 793,188 pregnant women received medical
support and supplemental feeding; and 1,051,309 infants and
young children received supplementary feeding. Indonesia’s
investment in these women and children, with ADB support,
helped save a generation at risk.

Box 8. Educating Girls

Several ADB objectives converge in girls' education. Educating girls reduces poverty, is an essential part of achieving gender equity, is a foundation of human development,
and contributes directly to sustainable economic growth.

Through loans and technical assistance, ADB is
ensuring that girls are given the opportunity to go to school,
and is improving the quality of the schooling girls receive.
In Bangladesh, ADB is supporting a project that provides
765,000 scholarships for girls as part of a strategy to encourage
families to enroll their daughters in secondary school. ADB is
also funding activities designed to ensure balanced treatment
of gender in textbooks, and is assisting nongovernment
organizations who work with indigenous communities in
developing special instructional materials for 12,000 children—
boys and girls—that reflect their language and culture. ADB
is also providing basic school supplies through local education committees for ethnic minority children.

In the Lao People’s Democratic Republic, ADB is funding a primary education project for ethnic minority girls

who have traditionally lacked access to schooling. In its
first phase, the project is targeting 300 ethnic minority
villages, providing multigrade classrooms, training ethnic
minority teachers, involving the community in school
management, and supporting a social mobilization program
to persuade parents to enroll their daughters in school.

ADB has been a major supporter of girls’ education
in Pakistan where the enrollment rate of girls has lagged
substantially behind that of boys. In one girls’ primary
education project, ADB funded the construction of
200 community model schools for girls, providing
400,000 additional places for girls. The model schools
helped upgrade the quality of teaching for another two
million girls through outreach schools. They also provided
special facilities—including toilets, playground equipment, and boundary walls to ensure privacy—to
encourage parents to enroll their daughters. ADB has
also supported the training of 10,000 female teachers
to ensure a growing supply of teachers for girls.ADB is supporting projects in women’s health
(Philippines) and reproductive health (Pakistan) that aim to
improve health services for women, especially reproductive
health care and family planning services. The projects
support integrated delivery of family planning and reproductive
health; strategies to reduce maternal malnutrition and
mortality; and national family reproductive health campaigns
focused on preventing sexually transmitted diseases.

ADB's challenges and directions

If Asia and the Pacific are to be free of poverty, the adults
of the future must have good health, sufficient knowledge,
and adequate life skills. This means that high priority must
be given to investment in children today.

Box 9. Immunizing Children

ADB’s health policy emphasizes the importance of primary
health care in Asia and the Pacific, and places high priority
on immunization programs. These programs are costeffective, impact positively on public health, benefit poor
children and women, and save about 500,000 lives in
the region annually.

Vaccination coverage in the region is now more
than 80 percent of all children, up from 10 percent in
the early 1970s. The incidence of measles has dropped
by 70 percent in the last decade. The western Pacific
region of the World Health Organization has been
declared polio-free.

However, although new vaccines for hepatitis B and
hemophilus influenza B (a cause of acute pneumonia in
children) are relatively low cost and effective in preventing
diseases that exact a large toll on children, they have
not yet been widely deployed.

Through the Asian Vaccination Initiative, ADB
conducted studies in Cambodia, Kazakhstan, Kyrgyz
Republic, Lao People's Democratic Republic, Sri Lanka,
Tajikistan, Uzbekistan, and Viet Nam, and collected data
that help policymakers expand and sustain immunization
programs. Also, ADB has actively supported immunization
programs through policy dialogue. Indonesia's social
protection and health and nutrition sector development
programs provided resources to maintain immunization
coverage during the financial crisis. In Thailand, a social
sector program loan encouraged the Government to allocate
additional resources for immunization. Similarly, projects
in Bangladesh, Cambodia, Indonesia, Pakistan, and Viet Nam
provide direct investments to strengthen immunization
programs, including training health workers.

Special Theme: Develop a Child 17

eee eee eee ee ee ee ee ee ee

The Poverty Reduction Strategy provides the guidelines
for ADB's help in realizing the international development
goals (IDGs) for 2015. ADB will promote regional initiatives
and country programs that ensure balanced attention to the
survival, growth, development, and learning capacity of the
region's children. It supports the Asian Vaccine Initiative
and agro-industrial partnerships between the public and
private sectors to eliminate micronutrient malnutrition,
especially the Universal Salt lodization Initiative and anemia
control programs. Market-based solutions to health and
nutrition problems are more likely to be sustainable. ADB
will assist both the regional dialogue and the mobilization
of additional resources.

At the country level, ADB will emphasize core programs
in community health and nutrition. It will continue to support
programs for control of childhood diseases and for safe
motherhood and reproductive health care. It will encourage
community-based nutrition for mothers and preschool children.

ADB will continue to support Education for All (also one
of the IDGs). It will support better education access and
retention for children of the poor. Its aim is to improve the
quality of education for all children, but in particular it will try
to ensure that poor children acquire the skills needed to
improve their lives. ADB will seek to link its education investment to broader sector reform—designed to improve education efficiency (and therefore financial sustainability), enhance
equity, and strengthen quality. ADB will also increase its
support for nonformal education.

The focus of ADB environmental assessments will be
broadened to encompass the child’s environment. Sector
investments in agriculture, water supply and sanitation,
industry, education, and health can contribute to child growth
and development. Country economic reporting will emphasize
trends in the achievements of children, much as the United
Nations Development Programme does by designating the
under-five child mortality rate as the most sensitive indicator
of equitable economic and social development.

Subregional cooperation is necessary in South Asia and
Central Asia, the areas posing the greatest challenges, to
promote the development of children. Solutions applied systematically in several countries with close cultural and
political ties make sense. ADB will support subregional
cooperation for child development.

Millions of children in Asia and the Pacific provide sad
and silent testimony to the fact that economic development
does not by itself reduce poverty. Children have to be put
at the top of the human development agenda. The cost of
helping children reach their potential is not small, but the
cost of not helping them is far greater. Develop a child,
develop a nation.Operational Prioritiesithin months of adopting its poverty reduction strategy in 1999, the Asian Development Bank (ADB) began
focusing its work toward reducing poverty in Asia and the Pacific through the three pillars of pro-poor
sustainable economic growth; social development; and good governance. Most ADB projects and
programs in 2000 were processed through one or more of these pillars, and through a range of complementary
priorities. Also in 2000, ADB formulated a long-term strategic framework. Once approved, this framework will guide

ADB's policies and operations from 2001 to 2015.

ADB's objective: poverty reduction

Developing Asia and the Pacific is the largest developing
region in the world in landmass, population, and aggregate
income. Its 3.2 billion people comprise over 70 percent of
the developing world’s population, but account for only
47 percent of the aggregate gross domestic product (GDP)
of all developing countries.' The region is diverse, ranging
from very large countries and economies such as the
People’s Republic of China (PRC) and India, to very small
island economies in the Pacific and small landlocked
economies in continental Asia.

The region as a whole has achieved unprecedented
sustained growth and development in the past three decades.
Growth was accompanied by a dramatic decline in the
incidence of absolute poverty, significant increases in per capita
incomes, and notable improvements in key social indicators.

However, aggregate success hides a great diversity of
development experiences among and within countries: not
all have shared equally in the benefits of the region's growth.
East? and Southeast Asia, spurred by astonishing growth
rates, achieved remarkable socioeconomic transformation.
South Asia‘ also made significant progress, although it still
lags behind East and Southeast Asia on most economic
and social indicators. The Central Asian republics® and
Azerbaijan experienced dramatic falls in income and
increased poverty, associated with the transition to
market economies triggered by the breakup of the former
Soviet Union. In many of the smaller economies of the
Pacific,® incomes have stagnated and the incidence of
poverty has remained high.

As a consequence, developing Asia and the Pacific
includes economies at very different stages of development,

1 Data are for 1998.

ranging from some of the least developed and poorest
countries in the world to newly industrialized economies.
Similarly, wide differences exist within countries,
reflecting the uneven distribution of the benefits of
development, including the continuing marginalization
of significant groups.

The challenge facing Asia and the Pacific is continuing
and pervasive poverty. Close to two thirds of the world's
poor live in the region, making it central in the fight against
global poverty and in achieving the international
development goals by 2015 (see box on page 11).

Over the years, ADB has played a key role in the fight
against poverty, contributing significantly to the economic
and social development of its developing member
countries (DMCs). ADB adapted its priorities, lending
modalities, and organizational structure to the changing
needs of the region, transforming itself from what was
essentially a project financier to a broad-based development institution.

With the adoption of its poverty reduction strategy at
the end of 1999, ADB made reducing poverty in the region
its main goal. This goal directed new operations and
supporting activities in 2000. For example, in 2000, ADB
embarked on a detailed analysis of poverty in its DMCs that
involved all stakeholders and built on existing databases
and understandings. ADB also began reorienting its country
strategies, projects, and lending targets toward the new goal.
Crosscutting and sector priorities were reassessed with
poverty reduction in mind; and new modalities of assistance
have been, and are being, designed. In addition, poverty
reduction outcomes are being monitored in accordance with
partnership agreements that have been signed initially with
two countries and eventually with all DMCs.

2 East Asia includes People's Republic of China; Hong Kong, China; Republic of Korea; Mongolia; and Taipei,China.
3 Southeast Asia includes Cambodia, Indonesia, Lao People's Democratic Republic, Malaysia, Myanmar, Philippines, Singapore, Thailand, and

Viet Nam.

4 South Asia includes Afghanistan, Bangladesh, Bhutan, India, Maldives, Nepal, Pakistan, and Sri Lanka.
5 The Central Asian republics include Kazakhstan, Kyrgyz Republic, Tajikistan, Turkmenistan, and Uzbekistan.
6 The Pacific includes Cook Islands, Fiji Islands, Kiribati, Marshall Islands, Federated States of Micronesia, Nauru, Papua New Guinea, Samoa,

Solomon Islands, Tonga, Tuvalu, and Vanuatu.20 ANNUAL REPORT 2000

Developing a long-term
strategic framework

The challenges currently faced by ADB's DMCs differ from
those in the past. In particular, globalization, led by trade
and financial liberalization and increasingly rapid changes
in information and communication technology, is having
a deep impact on Asian and Pacific economies and societies.
Globalization changes not only the way markets work but
also how governments, the private sector, and civil society
work and interact. In recent years, development thinking
has also been changing, with new approaches emphasizing
a broader view of development, stronger ownership by
stakeholders, and wider partnerships among DMC
governments, private sector, civil society, and funding
agencies. In addition, the fragility of the region's ecology
and the tremendous damage inflicted on it by heedless
development and environmental mismanagement have
greatly impaired the quality of life in the region.

These challenges have made the fight against poverty
even more daunting. To be more effective and responsive,
ADB changed its directions, approaches, and commitments.

To guide these strategic changes, ADB began in 2000
to formulate a long-term strategic framework (LTSF). The
LTSF provides the vision of the institution, its long-term
strategic goals, and its fundamental operating principles.
Once approved, it will guide the strategic management of
ADB from 2001 to 2015.

The LTSF was prepared through extensive consultations
with the Board of Directors and member countries,
development partners, and civil society; and drew on the
skills of ADB staff. An important feature of the LTSF was
the convening of the Senior External Advisory Panel
comprising nine eminent people from within and outside
the region. The panel met three times: twice in
Manila and once in New Delhi.

ADB's vision is an Asia and Pacific free of
poverty. The LTSF is intended to contribute to this
vision. ADB recognizes that pro-poor growth is
essential for sustained poverty reduction; but this
vision also reflects the belief that unleashing the
potential of the poor will contribute substantially to
overall growth and enhance the quality of life for all.
ADB's mission, therefore, is to help its DMCs improve
living conditions and the quality of life, with poverty
reduction being accorded the paramount priority.

ADB is pursuing this vision by focusing its
interventions on three core strategic areas: sustainable economic growth, inclusive social development,
and governance for effective policies and institutions.

 
  
 
 
 
  

The pursuit of sustainable economic growth translates
into growth-promoting activities, including investments in
both physical and social infrastructure. Inclusive social
development, on the other hand, means investments in
social support programs and a policy reform agenda that
promotes equity and empowerment. The third core area of
intervention, governance for effective policies and
institutions, includes providing support for public sector
management at all levels, supporting legal and judicial
reforms, and improving public accountability and procedures.

The three core areas are complemented by three crosscutting strategic themes that both broaden and deepen the
impact of the core interventions. The first—promoting the
role of the private sector in development—recognizes the
central role of the private sector and markets in the
development process, and responds to the challenges of
mobilizing private sector resources to address the region's
increasingly complex development agenda. The second
theme—regional cooperation and integration for development—reflects the need to provide wider development
options to DMCs by creating greater access to resources
and markets, addressing shared problems that stretch across
borders, and taking advantage of opportunities for sharing
knowledge and information. The third theme focuses on
addressing environmental sustainability.

The LTSF reflects ADB's position as the only multilateral
development bank in Asia and the Pacific with a regional
focus and is intended to enhance ADB's role as a broadbased development institution. Because the development
challenges of the region are far beyond the capacities and
resources of individual institutions, the strategic agenda also
aims to provide a basis for selectivity and improved efficiency
in operations. Regional and global conditions will
inevitably change during the life of the LTSF.
ADB will need the capacity to respond to the
evolving capabilities, needs, and
demands of each DMC and
reshape its role and operations accordingly. In that
context, the proposed
* agenda is a framework for
action intended to provide
the basis for ADB to remain
an effective development
partner for all its DMCs over

the next 15 years.

_ Transport projects develop
_ and rehabilitate roads that
directly impact on the poor.ADB's priorities

ADB projects and programs, whether poverty interventions
or otherwise, focused on one or more of the following
priorities in 2000: economic growth, human development,
gender and development, good governance, environmental
protection, private sector development, and regional
cooperation. Each is related directly to the three pillars of the
poverty reduction strategy: pro-poor, sustainable economic
growth; social development; and good governance. Other
crosscutting priorities pursued in 2000, such as law and

Supporting Pro-Poor Growth thr

 

gh |

Transport and communications: In 2000, transport and
communications projects focused on developing and
rehabilitating roads that directly impact on the poor by
lowering transport costs and improving access to markets
and social services. Governance issues were pursued through
new transport laws and institutions, railway restructuring
programs, and decentralization. Partnerships between the
public and private sectors were also promoted. In Bangladesh,
the Road Maintenance and Improvement Project will upgrade primary and regional roads nationwide, provide the
rural poor with better access to economic opportunities and
services, and encourage growth of export industries. The
Chongqing-Guizhou Roads Development Project in the People's
Republic of China (PRC) will enhance incomes and reduce
poverty by constructing an expressway and upgrading feeder
roads that will link the expressway interchanges to poor counties and townships in the project area. In India, a loan will
upgrade the Surat-Manor Tollway, which is later to be operated by a private concessionaire, a first in India. Faster delivery of goods and services will allow the local agriculture and
industry sectors to become more competitive and raise the
socioeconomic status of many of the 14 million predominantly
poor people living in the vicinity. In Tajikistan, the Road
Rehabilitation Project is improving the national highway linking
the capital and secondary cities.

Energy: A review of ADB’s 1995 energy policy—
Energy 2000—confirmed the relevance of ADB's 1995 policy
but recommended it be realigned to emphasize poverty
reduction, private sector involvement, regional and global
environment impacts, and regional trade. The review noted
that access to energy must be improved, particularly for
the poor. Operations in 2000 focused on rehabilitating and
restructuring existing power systems, and on promoting
renewable sources. In Cambodia, over 100,000 people will
benefit from better electricity services through the Provincial
Power Supply Project, which will expand power generation
and distribution systems in eight provincial capital towns.

 

Operational Priorities 21

eee eee eee eee ee ee ee ee

policy reform and social dimensions of development, also
contributed significantly to ADB’s main objective.

Promoting pro-poor economic growth

Economic growth can reduce poverty by generating
employment and incomes; labor-intensive growth can
reduce it even faster. Promoting inclusive, more equitable,
pro-poor, sustainable economic growth relies on the successful
pursuit of the other pillars of ADB's poverty reduction strategy:
social development and good governance.

astructure Development

The Wind Power Development Project in the PRC promotes
the development and use of renewable energy resources
to help address global environment concerns. In India,
the Power Transmission Improvement (Sector) Project and
the Gujarat Power Sector Development Program aim to
improve and lower the cost of power supplies to
consumers. In Pakistan, the Energy Sector Restructuring
Program will privatize the country's loss-making power
utilities. The Power Rehabilitation Project in Tajikistan
will rehabilitate existing hydropower plants and reinforce
power transmission and distribution facilities, benefiting
about one million poor people.

Industry and financial sectors: ADB continued to
assist its developing member countries in sustaining their
economic recovery from the Asian and Russian crises and
in strengthening governance. In Mongolia, the Second
Financial Sector Reform Program aims to address the
impaired financial system, which is potentially the most
significant constraint to achieving stable economic growth
and reducing poverty. In Nepal, the Corporate and Financial
Governance Project seeks to strengthen Nepal's capacity for
regulating and supervising the financial system, a prerequisite
for private sector development that promotes growth and
pro-poor impacts. In Sri Lanka, the Private Sector Development
Program aims to eliminate constraints to private business and
enhance the market environment through proper regulation
and more competition. ADB also supported small and medium
enterprises (SMEs) to increase industrial value added and
employment and to privatize state-owned enterprises. SME
development—such as in the Industrial Competitiveness and
Small and Medium Enterprise Development Program in
Indonesia, and the Small and Medium Enterprise Development
Project in Uzbekistan—aims to promote and sustain economic
growth. In Pakistan, the Small- and Medium-Size Enterprise
Trade Enhancement Finance Project and provision of a political
risk guarantee should boost the country's exports by improving
trade financing for SMEs.22 ANNUAL REPORT 2000

eee eee eee ee ee ey

Sector Distribution of Loan Approvals:
1997-1999 (average) and 2000—By Value
(percent)

0 7 14 21 28 35

Agriculture and
Natural Resources

Energy

Finance

Industry and Nonfuel
Minerals

Social Infrastructure

Transport and
Communications

Multisector/Others

Ml 1997-1999
ll 2000

Comprehensive social development must be combined
with economic growth to ensure that it is pro-poor. The
essential components of a comprehensive program o
social development are providing adequate budgetary
allocations for human development; targeting basic social
services to the poor; removing gender discrimination;
promoting an effective population policy; providing social
protection; and promoting social capital. Likewise, goo:
governance is an essential precondition for pro-poor growth.
Good governance and pro-poor growth can be facilitate
by transparent accounting and disclosure standards an
efficient financial intermediation. Good governance helps
establish an enabling regulatory and legal environment
essential to the sound functioning of land, labor, capital,
and other factor markets. In turn, the effective operation o
these factor markets helps secure optimal yields from both
public and private sector investments.

ADB gives priority to growth projects that impact on the
poor directly, such as rural roads; rural electrification an
renewable energy; reducing the cost of transport to and from

 

Sector Distribution of Loan Approvals
from OCR and ADF, 2000

(percent)

0 3 6 9 12 24

Agriculture and
Natural Resources

Energy wa
Finance
Industry and Nonfuel
Minerals
Social Infrastructure a
Transport and a

Communications
Multisector

Others

lM ocr
ll ADF

rural areas and between growth centers; providing transport
to increase access of the poor to markets, education, heath
care, and employment; promoting micro, small, and medium
enterprises through policy reforms and market infrastructure
geared toward the emergence of sustainable financial institutions; and promoting sound and efficient banking systems
and capital markets that are indispensable to mobilizing the
saving and long-term financing essential for pro-poor growth.

In 2000, ADB provided $3.0 billion in loans to 29 public
and private sector projects in transport and communications
($1.3 billion), energy ($1.1 billion), finance ($0.4 billion),
and industry ($0.2 billion) with economic growth as their
primary objective. In addition, technical assistance was
extended, amounting to $47 million.

Supporting human development

ADB's main human development objective is to reduce
poverty by improving the health, living standards, and
livelihood of people in its DMCs. This is done by

Beyond the Green Revoluti ADB's Rural Asia Study

Rural Asia underwent an economic transformation in the
20" century: dramatically improved food security, reduced
poverty, and raised incomes all resulted from the green
revolution, the first major application of modern science
to Asia’s agriculture.

Yet serious problems remain. Economic growth has
not been translated into broadly improved welfare.
Health and education services and infrastructure
development are still inadequate in rural areas. More than
670 million rural people (one third of the rural population) still live in abject poverty.

In 2000, ADB examined rural Asia with a view to
providing a vision of Asian agriculture and rural development
for the next 20 years. The main strategies recommended
by the study are in the overview and five background reports
(see ADB Publications: Recent Titles on page 276).

* Maintain sufficient levels of public investments in
agricultural research (especially biotechnology), rural
infrastructure, education, and health.

* Create effective safety nets.

* Facilitate an effective role for nongovernment organizations and civil society in carrying out good governance reforms.Supporting Pro-Poor Growth thr

Operational Priorities 23

eee eee eee eee ee ee ee ee

Agriculture and Natural Resource Developm

 

In 2000, some 20 projects for 12 countries were processed in
the agriculture and natural resource sector, comprising
25 loans totaling $1.0 billion. Ten projects, including those
in irrigation, are supporting crop development for the rural
poor: three are targeting poverty reduction through rural
development; three are developing rural financial services
for the poor; three are focusing on participatory natural
resource management—a sector on which the poor are
heavily reliant; and one is supporting land registration. Four
are sector development programs, comprising both project
and program components. In addition, multisector flood
relief emergency assistance was approved for Bangladesh,
Cambodia, and Viet Nam. Finally, 37 technical assistance
grants supported project preparation, capacity building,
strategic planning, and institutional improvements in
15 countries. Two grants were for regional technical
assistance: one to support research at various Consultative
Group on International Agriculture Research centers, and
another to conduct a study on the potential use of
biotechnology in reducing poverty and achieving food
security in Asia.

Crop development: The Stung Chinit Irrigation and
Rural Infrastructure Project in Cambodia will increase
agricultural productivity in a populous rural area, dominated
by rural subsistence or semisubsistence farming that is
dependent on one low-yield rainfed rice crop per year. The
West Henan Agricultural Development Project in the People's
Republic of China provides a model for the impoverished
western provinces to promote economic growth by
developing horticulture and livestock; it will lift about
340,000 people above the poverty line. The Farm
Restructuring Sector Development Program in Kazakhstan
promotes the recovery
and growth of the agriculture sector through a
combination of policy
reforms and institutional development. The Crop Diversification Project in Nepal will
increase farmer income by promoting production and marketing,
especially of secondary agricultural
crops in two regions where the pov
Grains Sector Development Program
in the Philippines supports policy
reforms that will liberalize pricing
and the importation of rice and
maize, replace general rice
subsidies with targeted

assistance to the poor, improve rice buffer stock management, and restructure the state grain trading corporation.

Rural development: The Chittagong Hill Tracts Rural
Development Project in Bangladesh is the first major effort
to help the hill people since two decades of civil strife ended
in 1997. The Project will increase employment and social
services for the predominantly poor rural population by
upgrading rural transportation infrastructure; providing
microfinance, training, and other services; and creating a
community investment fund to finance small-scale development activities. The Community Empowerment for Rural
Development Project in Indonesia is premised on the concept
of socially inclusive development. The Project—recognized by
ADB President Tadao Chino for its innovative design and given
a Performance Recognition Award in 2000—will promote
democratic and participatory mechanisms in six poor provinces.

Financial services: The Microfinance Sector Development Program in Pakistan supports reforms that will build
a conducive policy environment for developing the
microfinance sector, establish mechanisms to enhance social
capital, and introduce risk mitigation measures. The policy
and investment package enables public-private partnerships
to provide a range of affordable financial and social services
to the poor, especially women who bear the burden of
poverty disproportionately.

Natural resources: The Marine and Coastal Resources
Management Project in Indonesia addresses critical issues of
natural resource management in a decentralized framework,
where resource depletion and environmental degradation are
adversely affecting coastal communities. The Protected Area
Management and Wildlife Conservation Project in Sri Lanka
is a joint undertaking of the Government, ADB, World Bank,
and the Global Environment
Facility to protect Sri Lanka's
globally significant biodiversity and wildlife resources.

In the Pacific, two technical assistance projects aim to
support marine resource
management. The CommunityBased Coastal Marine Resources
Development Project in the
Marshall Islands will facilitate
a revolving trust fund and the
Coastal Fisheries Management and Development
Project in Papua New
Guinea will promote
sustainable coastal
fisheries management.24 ANNUAL REPORT 2000

eee eee eee ee ee ey

strengthening institutions; building capacity; reforming
policy; and providing loans and technical assistance in the
education, health and nutrition, water supply and sanitation,
and urban development sectors. For more on ADB's projects
and programs in human development, see the special theme
chapter on pages 6-17.

Education: No country or region has done well in
reducing poverty without first providing widespread basic
education and health services. Education helps empower
the poor, enhances their income-earning potential, and
improves the quality of their lives. People with basic
education are more productive and more likely to earn
higher incomes.

ADB lending to education in 2000 emphasized basic
education—particularly for girls and groups excluded for
social, economic, and geographic reasons. It also covered
a wide range of interventions at all levels, both formal
and nonformal, and included inputs for improving quality
and efficiency; institutional capacity building; personnel
training; and incentive programs for girls and other
disadvantaged groups. The interventions were supported
through sustained policy dialogue and stakeholder
participation. ADB’s draft education sector policy,
prepared in 2000, emphasizes the need to integrate
information and communication technology in education,
and recommends an increasing role for, and engagement
of, the private sector in the delivery of education services.

Health: Investments in health are key to improving
people's welfare and enhancing economic and social
development. Improving human capital enables citizens
to participate fully in civil society and thereby contribute
to a nation's development. The poor are in worse health
and are more likely to fall ill than the nonpoor. The

consequences of poor health to people living in poverty
are severe and are largely preventable because the main
determinants of the poor’s health status—limited access
to essential health services and higher rates of infectious
disease—can be addressed at relatively low cost. Funds
allocated to essential health services provide disproportionate benefits for the poor, including women, children,
and other traditionally underserved groups.

Activities in the health sector in 2000 demonstrated
ADB's commitment to its goal of reducing poverty.
Essential curative, preventive, and promotive services
were emphasized; and assistance was provided to the
poor, women, children, and groups excluded for social,
economic, and geographic reasons. Loans and technical
assistance in 2000 assisted health sector reforms, including decentralization of health services; raised institutional
capacity by strengthening management and planning and
developing sustainable financing for the health sector;
reduced malnutrition; addressed emerging health threats;
and facilitated public-private partnerships. Projects were
prepared and implemented with the participation and
collaboration of nongovernment organizations.

Water supply and sanitation: ADB's water supply and
sanitation projects in 2000 aimed at providing a balanced
package of development benefits, including supporting
human and economic development, reducing poverty,
improving gender equity, and protecting public health
standards and the environment. To sustain project benefits,
ADB encouraged private sector involvement in the operation
and maintenance of water utility enterprises. ADB also
supported institutional and agency capacity building to
improve the efficiency of delivery, operation and maintenance, financial management, and cost recovery.

Supporting Poverty Reduction th h Education

ADB lending in 2000 for education reflects the diverse needs
of its developing member countries (DMCs) and its principal
goal of reducing poverty.

A loan for technological and professional skills
development in Indonesia will support higher education
reform by strengthening university autonomy. In the Kyrgyz
Republic, the Skills and Entrepreneurship Development
Project will improve formal and nonformal skills training
and strengthen entrepreneurship development, especially
among socially and economically disadvantaged groups.
The Marshall Islands received assistance for more extensive
and better skills training to improve income-generating
capabilities of the poor. In the Philippines, two loans will
help improve technical education and skills development:

one will provide assistance to private institutions to upgrade
their technical education programs, and the other will
reorient the Technical Education and Skills Development
Authority by focusing on accreditation and transferring the
management of schools to local governments and the
private sector. In Sri Lanka, about one million students in
grades 10-13 will benefit from a project that aims to
modernize secondary education in the country. Over
30,000 disadvantaged students will attend school full time
on stipends provided by the project.

ADB will also provide technical assistance to several
DMCs for sectoral reform, capacity building, improved
management and delivery of education services, nonformal
vocational training, and skills development.Supporting Poverty Reduction

through Primary Health Care

Operational Priorities 25

eee eee eee eee ee ee ee ee

Supporting Poverty Reduction
through Water Supply and Sanitation

 

In 2000, loans and technical assistance to the health
subsector provided primary health care to the poor.

In Bhutan, the Health Care Reform Program will assist
the Government in implementing health policy reforms and
strengthen primary health care through selective
interventions and expanded services. In Indonesia, the
Decentralized Health Services Project will devolve operational
and financial responsibilities for health service delivery to
the district level. The proposals in this loan were developed
locally in a participatory manner, ensuring full ownership
of the Project. In the Lao People's Democratic Republic, the
Primary Health Care Expansion Project will improve access
to, and the quality of, essential curative, preventive, and
promotive health services, and improve referral services in
the remote and inaccessible northern provinces of the
country, where 60 percent of the population live below the
poverty line. In the Federated States of Micronesia, the Basic
Social Services Project will assist the Government in designing and introducing essential reforms to
provide effective and cost-efficient ser- @
vices to poor households and vulnerable
groups. In Viet Nam, the Rural Health
Project will provide better access to
health care and support health
financing initiatives for the poor.

Technical assistance will
build capacity in preventing and
controlling HIV/AIDS in Cambodia
and help prevent further spread
of the disease in the Greater
Mekong Subregion.

   
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 

In 2000, loans to the water supply and sanitation
subsector helped reduce pollution, protect water
resources, and enhance rural water supply and sanitation
coverage, thus contributing to improved health and
living conditions.

In the People’s Republic of China, the Tianjin
Wastewater Treatment and Water Resources Protection
Project will benefit the urban population directly by
removing untreated sewage, and protecting the city's
sole source of raw water supply from an increasing
pollution threat. Reducing the incidence of waterborne
diseases, safeguarding the quality of drinking water, and
providing employment opportunities to women are
additional benefits expected. In the Central Asian
republics, ADB is helping decentralize management and
identify private sector participation in Kazahkstan, Kyrgyz
Republic, and Uzbekistan, and is undertaking an
assessment of the water sector in Tajikistan. In Nepal,
the Small Towns Water Supply and Sanitation Sector
Project will help improve water supply and sanitation
conditions in 40-50 small towns along the major national
highways. About 600,000 people will benefit. Also in
Nepal, the Melamchi Water Supply Project will benefit
about 1.5 million people living in the Kathmandu Valley.
Apart from physical construction, the Project will
introduce strong institutional reforms in the subsector.

In addition, ADB is undertaking a study of publicprivate community partnerships in 15 cities in 12 Asian
and Pacific countries, as part of its efforts to prepare
guidelines for effective partnerships for water supply and
sanitation and solid waste.

Supporting Poverty Reduction through Urban Development

ADB helped reduce urban poverty in 2000 by providing loans
and technical assistance aimed at improving the quality
and supply of housing and by promoting private sector
development.

In India, the Housing Finance II Project will create lines
of credit for directing housing finance to low-income
households and support subprojects such as slum
networking and home workplace schemes to improve the
access of poor families to housing, income-earning activities,
and basic infrastructure and community services. In
Mongolia, the cessation of public housing construction since
the early 1990s, deteriorating housing conditions, and lack
of finance have led to major problems for the poor, most
of whom reside in urban areas. ADB is providing assistance

to improve the quality and supply of housing, especially in
the poorer areas, and is strengthening institutional and
housing finance systems. In the Philippines, assistance
is targeted at rapid urbanization coupled with poor city
planning, overconcentrated population in Metro Manila,
limited urban services (especially at the provincial level),
lack of local government financing, limited private sector
provision of services, and massive pollution problems.
The Pasig River Environmental Management and
Rehabilitation Sector Development Program will
contribute significantly to improving Metro Manila's
urban environment. A related technical assistance grant
will provide institutional capacity building for agencies with
environmental management responsibilities.26 ANNUAL REPORT 2000

eee eee eee ee ee ey

Improving the Status of Women

While the primary objective of the North-West Frontier
Province Barani Area Development Project-Phase II in
Pakistan is poverty reduction, the Project also addresses
ADB's objective of improving the status of women.

Significant gender disparities exist in the project
area, with women having less access than men to basic
social services such as education and health. Overall,
women’s literacy in the project area is estimated at
8.5 percent; and in some areas, this drops below
1 percent. Women are often malnourished as a result of
their heavy workloads. They have frequent pregnancies.
They have only limited access to resources.

Gender-specific interventions were designed for the
Project, including forming separate women’s organizations
led by women themselves, and using female credit officers
to ensure that at least 30 percent of borrowers in the credit
component are women.

Gender specialists will be placed in the Project's management and implementation units and subunits to monitor
and evaluate the process and interventions. Given the high
turnover of women staff in an earlier project—because of
the lack of social protection for women living alone—the
Project will construct accommodation for women and
provide double-cabin vehicles for mixed-gender field visits.

Gender Mainstreaming

Gender mainstreaming became more apparent in most
aspects of ADB operations. Several loan and technical
assistance projects approved in 2000 addressed gender
issues. The Primary Health Care Expansion Project in the
Lao People’s Democratic Republic, which is improving access
to primary health care among poor ethnic minority
communities, will improve women's health by targeting
reproductive health services to women; training ethnic
minority women to become health workers; providing
scholarships to women without basic education; constructing and/or rehabilitating health centers designed to provide
privacy for women; providing gender awareness training as
part of health staff training; appointing female staff at the
project management level; and developing gender sensitive
indicators to monitor women's use of health services.

The Crop Diversification Project in Nepal, which
promotes the production and marketing of agricultural crops, is
ensuring gender mainstreaming
by providing quotas for employing women at the field and
project management levels. All
project staff will receive training
in gender sensitization. To
enhance women's participation in the Project, adult
literacy classes for women
will be held to prepare
women for their roles as
decision makers.

In Indonesia, the
Community Empowerment
for Rural Development
Project is designed to

reduce poverty by increasing the incomes of poor families.
The Project enhances women's participation in planning and
ensures that project activities address the interests and
concerns of women. The Project provides quotas for
women's participation in training and in access to credit
facilities. Quotas for women's participation also have been
established for training programs for local government staff.

The Provincial Towns Water Supply and Sanitation
Project in Papua New Guinea aims to provide low-cost basic
sanitation facilities for urban dwellers. Women's groups will
be mobilized to ensure women's involvement in planning,
designing, and implementing the Project. Half the field
workers employed by the nongovernment organizations will
be women from project area communities.

  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
     
     
 
     

ee ecceceeee
Investments that benefit
women are crucial to
development and the
creation of a healthier,
better-educated society.Urban development and housing: Reducing the
impact of poverty—caused by inadequate access to basic
municipal services and shelter resulting from rapid urbanization—is a major challenge facing DMCs, which ADB addresses
through its urban development and housing projects.

ADB's main objectives in urban development and
housing are to reduce urban poverty; lift living standards
in urban areas; enhance the quality of life, including
promoting human development, raising public health
awareness and standards, and improving the status of
women; and achieve sustainable urban development by
protecting the environment. In 2000, ADB supported urban
development projects that promote good governance by
decentralizing authority, responsibilities, and resources from
central to local government units; and improve urban
management, community participation, and partnerships
with the private sector. ADB also promoted fiscal autonomy,
direct cost recovery, and market-based pricing of services.
Urban development includes projects on water supply and
sanitation, integrated urban development, solid waste
management, urban transport, and urban housing.

Supporting gender and development and
improving the status of women

ADB recognizes that improving the status of women is
integral in achieving its other strategic objectives.
Investments that benefit women are crucial to development
and to creating a healthier, better-educated society. ADB's
gender and development policy supports the mainstreaming
of gender equity as a key strategy in ADB operations.

In 2000, ADB’s gender and development activities
focused on implementing the gender policy. A gender and
development action plan was drafted, three sectoral gender
checklists (health, education, and water supply and
sanitation) were prepared and published; and sector-based
gender training was conducted for ADB staff.

A regional technical assistance—Gender and Development Initiatives—promoted and supported innovative pilot
initiatives among women’s nongovernment organizations
(NGOs) in ADB's DMCs. The project provided small-scale
grants to women’s NGOs in several DMCs to improve the
status of women. The NGOs conducted information campaigns
in Bangladesh on the rights of women and children; provided
consultations for poor women in Indonesia on legal issues;
focused on preventing burns, and caring for and curing
women burn victims in Pakistan, including raising public
awareness of these issues and improving curative facilities
of existing burn care centers; and provided business
education to women in 12 rural areas in Uzbekistan.

Operational Priorities 27

eee eee eee eee ee ee ee ee

New country-focused briefing papers on women were
published for Nepal, Pakistan, and Tajikistan; and four more
were prepared. Also in 2000, the Operations Evaluations
Office conducted a special evaluation study on gender and
development to learn how to improve the effectiveness of
gender dimensions in project processing and implementation. A total of nine projects in Bangladesh, Nepal, and
Viet Nam were evaluated, covering a broad range such as
irrigation, microcredit, water supply and sanitation, health,
fisheries, and urban infrastructure. The study aimed to
recommend more effective and responsive strategies for
integrating gender concerns in ADB's projects and programs.

Supporting good governance

In October 1995, ADB became the first multilateral
development bank to have a Board-approved policy on
governance. The policy became the basic building block for
a cluster of good governance policies, which now includes
policies on procurement, law and policy reform, participation
of civil society, and anticorruption. Also, good governance
has since been established as one of the three pillars of
ADB's poverty reduction strategy.

The policy, as written in 1995, focused on dialogue with
DMCs to identify governance areas most suitable for ADB's

Corporate Governance in Action

In 1994, ADB invested in Global Trust Bank Limited and
Centurion Bank Limited, both in India. Each investment
was to assist the entry of the private sector into the Indian
banking sector, which had been dominated by stateowned banks since bank nationalization in 1969. Each
investment also aimed to promote the adoption of best
banking practices.

Since 1994, ADB has helped influence the quality
of corporate governance in each bank through membership on its board of directors. ADB's nominee director
in each case has discussed a variety of corporate governance reforms with the board and management of the
bank, helping convince them of the benefits from instituting sound governance practices. Largely because of
the efforts of the board and management, each bank
led the way in India by establishing written corporate
governance codes: detailed documents, including the list
of board committees and their terms of reference, role
of board members, information to be submitted to the
board, definition of independent directors, and role of
the board in monitoring performance. The corporate
governance code of each bank was adopted in 2000.28 ANNUAL REPORT 2000

eee eee eee ee ee ey

interventions, initiate activities that would increase the
understanding of governance issues by DMC officials, and
forge a broad constituency for good governance in the region
through numerous, but ad hoc, regional activities.

In 2000, ADB reviewed the evolution and implementation
of the policy, and found some success: the policy had laid the
groundwork for improved governance by revising formats, such
as in budgetary processes, compliance auditing, and
procurement; drafting the needed legislation; and requiring
participatory procedures in ADB-funded activities. However,
governance and institutional capacities were still limited, and
government effectiveness needed to be enhanced. Also, a
“customer-oriented” culture where the public sector sees
the value of its functions in light of customer satisfaction
of, and ease of access to, services remained elusive.

On a positive note, the importance of good governance
in the region is now widely recognized, and the links
between good governance and sustainable economic and
social development are now broadly understood and more
generally accepted. The quality of governance is today the
subject of healthy debate in many DMCs. Consequently, ADB
can now pursue governance more broadly and vigorously.

Recognizing this, ADB began work in 2000 on a
medium-term agenda and action plan for governance, which
aims to elevate governance issues to the top level of the
development agenda in the region; develop a consensus
on regional benchmarks, codes of conduct, and best
practices across the range of public and private sectors, and

   

ting Environmental Gover les)
Good governance is directly related to the success of
environment policies. Weak state capacity and lack of an
independent judiciary can preclude effective enforcement of
environment laws. At the same time, the nature of environment and natural resource management systems strongly
influences governance outcomes. For example, low economic
rent generated from natural resource exploitation—such as
logging and mining—not only can provide incentives for
inefficient production; it can increase the political influence
of crony capitalists by providing access to excessive profits.

ADB has been increasingly successful in addressing
environmental governance through its loan and technical
assistance operations.

* Cambodia is receiving assistance to review compliance of logging concessionaires with contract conditions.

¢ With ADB's assistance, the People's Republic of China
passed critical environmental legislation for land management;
the Fiji Islands passed national environmental management
legislation; and the Philippines adopted air quality legislation.

set indicators of good governance; and enhance the quality
of governance in individual DMCs.

Once adopted, ADB will achieve these objectives by

* optimizing the impact of its operations on poverty
reduction by addressing key governance issues in DMCs in
a systematic and focused manner;

¢ initiating a regional program to raise the profile of
governance and provide a regional focal point for
governance issues;

¢ demonstrating to borrowing DMCs the cost of
corruption and the value of eliminating it by setting an
example of zero tolerance in ADB’s own activities, and
promoting the spread of good financial and other internal
control systems to DMCs by encouraging their use in all
agencies involved in ADB-related activities;

* actively improving the coordination of governance
activities by development agencies in the region through
enhanced cooperation and partnership;

¢ strengthening ADB's capacity to address governance
issues; and

¢ providing regular and frequent feedback to all stakeholders on implementing the action plan and lessons learned.

Good governance and the private sector: Quality
corporate governance is essential in the private sector, just
as good governance is essential in the public sector. A
systemic failure of corporate governance, as revealed during
the Asian financial crisis, can have pervasive consequences,
including an undue burden on the poor. Sound corporate

* Three technical assistance grants were approved
in 2000 to build the capacity of national and provincial
level staff from India, Kyrgyz Republic, and Thailand in
environmental management and monitoring.

¢ Indonesia set up institutional mechanisms to
contain forest fire and haze pollution.

* Under a technical assistance grant to build
capacities, ADB and other organizations conducted
11 workshops in 2000 for 500 representatives from
14 Asian countries on topics dealing with environment,
economic, and legal issues related to the Kyoto Protocol,
including the Clean Development Mechanism and Joint
Implementation, as well as the Buenos Aires Plan of Action.

« An early warning system was implemented
under a strategic environmental framework for the
Greater Mekong Subregion facilitating spatial screening
for environmental impacts of proposed development
activities within the subregion at the early project
planning stage.governance provides confidence to lenders, investors, and
employees and may facilitate access to lower-cost capital
and optimize the use of scarce resources. For example,
developing the domestic capital market will often require
adopting a corporate governance culture that ensures
voluntary compliance coupled with effective regulatory
enforcement. In most DMCs, corporate governance will have
to be improved if recovery and growth are to be sustained.
Through technical assistance, ADB can help review
commercial laws and regulations and introduce key features
of good corporate governance such as credible accounting
and auditing standards; timely and accurate disclosure rules;
sound environment, labor, and social standards; adequate
protection of minority shareholder rights; effective
bankruptcy and foreclosure regimes; and the imposition of
fiduciary duties on corporate directors. ADB can also help
train corporate directors on their duties and responsibilities,
and on ways to be effective in balancing the interests of
shareholders with those of other stakeholders—employees,
customers, suppliers, investors, and communities—while
maximizing value.

Protecting the environment

Sound environmental management is vital to sustainable
development and ADB's objective of reducing poverty.
Development will be short-lived if it is not based on

Operational Priorities 29

eee eee eee eee ee ee ee ee

sustainable use of the natural environment and its resources.
In 2000, ADB made steady progress in helping its DMCs
achieve the twin objectives of environmental protection and
poverty reduction.

Twelve loan projects and programs, aimed at reducing
poverty while protecting or enhancing the environment and
the natural resource base of its DMCs, were approved in
2000. Of these, seven had environment as their primary
objectives. This number is more than double the number
approved in 1999. The year’s lending for environment
improvement was $1.2 billion or almost 23 percent of the
total approved loan amount, higher than the average
13 percent per year over the past five years.

Timely, cautious, and judicious review of environmentally sensitive loan projects and programs ensured
that their environmental impacts were mitigated and
environmental risks—especially to the poor—minimized.
For example, the Environmental and Social Monitoring
Information System provided timely information critical
for early intervention. A peer review process involving
ADB staff as an environment network continued to
improve the quality of environmental impact assessment
reports. By fielding loan review missions during implementation, ADB was also able to monitor borrowers’
compliance with agreed environmental management
measures, while at the same time gauging the effectiveness of such measures.

Protecting the Environment While Reducing Poverty

About half of ADB’s environmental projects and programs
in 2000 focused on managing natural resources—water,
fisheries, forests, and wildlife—mostly in the rural areas.
Others tackled pollution and other environmental problems
in the urban areas, with low-income households, particularly
slum dwellers, being the primary beneficiaries.

With grant cofinancing from the Global Environment
Facility (GEF), a project in the People's Republic of China
(PRC) will finance three wind farms with a total power
generation capacity of 78 megawatts. The Project will
eliminate future emissions of sulfur and nitrogen oxides,
suspended particulates, and carbon dioxide that would
otherwise add to the pollution load if conventional thermal
power generation were used. In Sri Lanka, two projects aim
at promoting resource management in forestry and water
resources, and a third—with GEF grant cofinancing—will
conserve the country’s natural resources and wildlife
biodiversity by strengthening institutional capacity,
providing equipment and infrastructure, and developing
adaptive field management.

Technical assistance grants helped mainstream
environmental concerns in development activities. Recognizing the important role played by the state, regional, and
local authorities in environmental planning, management,
and monitoring, ADB provided assistance to strengthen
environmental governance in PRC, India, Indonesia, and
Thailand. ADB technical assistance also equipped environmental institutions in the Kyrgyz Republic with monitoring
and data management systems for effective planning, policy
formulation, and decision making. In the Philippines, a grant
will improve the national capacity to implement the
Convention on Biological Diversity.

ADB also supported improved cooperation in
addressing environmental issues. In the Central Asian republics,
ADB is promoting improved environmental management
by supporting the process of, and the mechanism for,
regional environmental action planning and implementation.
In the Pacific DMCs, ADB is promoting traditional environmental management practices, knowledge, and values to
encourage more sustainable use of natural resources.30 ANNUAL REPORT 2000

eee eee eee ee ee ey

In addition to extending direct technical assistance to
specific countries and regional groups, ADB worked on
further strengthening the integration of environmental
policies in key development sectors by preparing a new
publication, the Asian Environment Outlook (expected
publication in 2001), and formulating, for the first time, a
formal environment policy paper (for Board of Directors’
consideration in 2001). Consultations with stakeholders inside
and outside the region (including the Central Asian republics,
Japan, and United States) helped develop a prescriptive analysis
of the kinds of interventions ADB can make in its policy-based
and project loans, technical assistance, and policy dialogues
to improve environmental quality and enhance poverty
reduction. Thematic papers reflecting the perspectives of
borrowing and donor countries were also prepared.

Using a more streamlined approach to grant resources,
ADB also pursued new opportunities for partnership with the
Global Environment Facility (GEF). The policy on “Expanded
Opportunities for Regional Development Banks,” adopted by

GEF in May 1999,
allowed ADB to blend
its own resources for
sustainable development at the country level with GEF

    
  
  
 
     
 
    

Cleaning the Urban Environment

grant resources allocated to addressing global environment
issues. This enabled ADB to deliver new and greener products
to its clients on more attractive lending terms. In 2000, the
preparatory work for six projects availed of grants from GEF
resources, while two loan projects received GEF cofinancing.

Seminars, conferences, workshops, and training
programs aimed at raising environmental awareness
continued to enhance the skills and knowledge of ADB staff
and its DMCs. ADB cosponsored the Ministerial Conference
on Environment and Development in Asia and the Pacific,
organized by the Economic and Social Commission for Asia
and the Pacific and hosted by the Government of Japan with
the support of Kitakyushu City and Fukuoka Prefecture. As
poverty is both a contributor to and a major consequence
of environmental degradation, ADB President Tadao Chino
emphasized during the event the importance that countries
in the region must give to maintaining environmental
stability. The event culminated in a ministerial declaration, a regional action program for environmentally sound
and sustainable development from 2001 to 2005, and a
regional message for the “Rio + 10” (i.e., United Nations
Earth Summit scheduled for 2002) review of Agenda 21.
In addition, several publications were prepared that
support the awareness-raising activities (see ADB
Publications—Recent Titles on page 276).

 

  
 
  
   
  
 
  
 

At their best, urban centers can be
vibrant areas where art, science,
technology, and business flourish. At
their worst, they can be plagued by
SS environmental failures, including
increased flooding and landslides,
groundwater deterioration,
pollution, and congestion.
ADB addressed these
environment-related problems
in recent projects introducing
policy reforms, investment
packages, and the associated
institutional capacity building
necessary for effective and
sustainable environmental
improvement. The Calcutta
Environmental Improvement
Project in India will provide

ee cceessece

 

 

equitable access to municipal services and
encourage more effective municipal
management. About five million people will
benefit from improved sewerage, solid
waste management, and slum upgrading.
In the Philippines, the Metro Manila Air
Quality Improvement Sector Development
Program, and its associated air pollution
control investment loan and technical
assistance, implemented in 2000, has
already achieved a nationwide phaseout
of leaded gasoline. The Pasig River Environmental Management and Rehabilitation
Sector Development Program will contribute to achieving a clean urban environment
for Metro Manila and improving the Pasig
River's water quality through policy reforms
and technical assistance for building the
capacity of environment agency staff.

Generations will benefit from a cleaner environment, with the help of ADB.Private sector development

A strong and dynamic private sector is crucial to long-term
economic growth, a necessary condition for sustained
poverty reduction. ADB's Private Sector Development
Strategy, approved in 2000, recognizes this. The Strategy
defines how ADB can more effectively promote private
sector-led growth to reduce poverty in Asia and the Pacific,
and acknowledges the private sector's contribution to
sustaining pro-poor growth, promoting social development,
and cultivating good governance.

Sustained pro-poor, economic growth is the most
powerful weapon in the fight against poverty. Growth creates
employment. Moreover, private enterprise is by far the
largest source of employment and investment. Economic
growth also increases the tax base that enables governments, acting on good governance principles, to finance
labor market programs and provide increasing levels of basic
social services (health and education services, in particular) which, in turn, improve the poor's ability to increase
their productivity and earning capacity. Transparency and
accountability in government are also crucial to ensuring
that social expenditures are effective and can reach the poor.

The private sector can impact on poverty in other ways
as well. Private sector investment in infrastructure projects
that are properly regulated can relieve pressure on public
budgets and, thus, enable governments to redirect more
resources to social spending. Private sector participation
in infrastructure can also improve the delivery and efficiency
of essential services, leading to a more equitable distribution

Operational Priorities 31

eee eee eee eee ee ee ee ee

Private Sector Loans and Equity Investments
($ million)

0 40 80 120 160

 

Ml Equity
Ml Loans

of benefits to all, including the poor. Efficiency gains from
privatized utilities can benefit all income classes.

The social sectors can benefit from private sector
involvement as well. The private sector can be contracted
to operate nonprofit social facilities such as schools and
health clinics. With proper regulation, private sector
management is often more efficient than public administration and can deliver better and more innovative
services at a lower cost.

Private sector development strategy

The Private Sector Development Strategy aims at strengthening the role of the private sector in Asia. The Strategy is
based on the concept that ADB will support efforts to expand

The Private Sector Developm Strategy: Recent Examples of Its Three Thrusts

ADB's private sector development strategy helps member
governments create enabling conditions, generate business
opportunities, and catalyze private investment.

For example, in the People's Republic of China, ADB
is working with the Chamber of Commerce to identify
impediments and opportunities to stimulate private sector
activities, both local and foreign. Also, technical assistance
is helping structure and tender the Jiangsu Highway to the
private sector. This pilot project will help develop the legal
and regulatory framework for private sector participation
in the road subsector. In Indonesia, ADB technical assistance
helped to structure the proposed new Medan Airport Project
as a public-private partnership. The public sector will build
and operate the runway and the private sector will construct
and operate the terminal. In Nepal, ADB is providing a loan
and several technical assistance grants to upgrade
regulatory framework, improve the institutional capacity

for law enforcement, and help create a sound financial
system, a prerequisite for economic growth and private
sector development. In Pakistan, an ADB loan will institute
a framework for microfinance development and establish
a microfinance bank to catalyze the sector's growth. The
aim is to finance 1.6 million small income-generating
activities and 4,500 small-scale, community-based infrastructure projects. Another loan to Pakistan will provide
for trade initiatives through a trade finance facility, together
with the establishment of the Pakistan Export Finance
Guarantee Agency. Financing includes a public sector loan,
a private sector investment, and a political risk guarantee.
In Viet Nam, a technical assistance project will identify
possible components for private sector participation in the
water supply subsector, with the potential to outsource
billing and collection, maintenance, vehicle fleets, and
human resource management and training.32 ANNUAL REPORT 2000

eee eee eee ee ee ey

and strengthen private sector participation in its DMCs, and
it provides the framework for doing that. The Strategy has
three major thrusts.

* Creating enabling conditions: Through its public
sector operations, ADB will help member governments
establish the right conditions for business to flourish, and
create an environment conducive to pro-poor growth. It will
encourage reforms that spur entrepreneurial development
and stimulate domestic and foreign private investments.
ADB will help shift the government's role from ownerproducer to facilitator-regulator of private sector activities,
ensuring that markets work while protecting public interest.
This will free public resources for use in basic education,
health services, and social safety nets.

¢ Generating business opportunities: ADB will
ensure that its public sector investments do not crowd out
the private sector, and that opportunities are created to
crowd in private sector participation. ADB will take steps
to ensure that, in its public sector projects, business
opportunities will be generated so that the private sector
can help bear the responsibility of developing its DMCs.

¢ Catalyzing private investments: Through its
Private Sector Group, ADB will continue to provide direct
financial assistance to private sector projects that have clear
development impacts and demonstration effects. ADB's
participation in a project is usually small, but it leverages
a large amount of funds from commercial sources.

Two important operating principles guide and
concentrate ADB's efforts on where it can contribute best:

"Think private sector development" in public sector
operations (to examine private sector alternatives at key
stages of ADB projects), and "Think development impact"
in private sector operations (to ensure that all interventions
are aimed at delivering development benefits).

 
 
 
 
  

Private sector operations

In many DMCs, perceptions of risk and an imperfect enabling
policy and regulatory environment have not encouraged
private sector investment. The direct participation of a
multilateral development bank helps mitigate such
perceived sovereign risks. In its private sector operations,
ADB has played this catalytic and risk mitigating role. Its
participation provides comfort and confidence to
investors, particularly demonstrating the feasibility of
pioneering transactions in client countries. Direct
participation in private sector projects provides ADB with
the opportunity to understand firsthand the impediments
to private sector development, and increases ADB's
credibility as a public policy adviser that promotes creating
an enabling environment for private investment.

With these ends in mind, ADB has continued to provide
direct financial assistance to private sector projects. In 2000,
ADB approved 11 private sector projects involving financing
commitments of $234 million, comprising $78 million of
equity investment and $156 million in loans without
government guarantees. Two projects attracted loan
cofinancing commitments of $45 million under ADB’s
complementary financing scheme, and two others pioneered
the use of ADB's political risk guarantee instrument to mobilize
$122 million in loans from commercial banks. Overall, ADB's
participation in the 11 projects catalyzed a total of
$1.6 billion of investment commitments for development.

ADB's private sector operations focus on infrastructure
and finance. Projects in these two sectors can have a
significant development impact.

Public-private partnerships: In infrastructure, ADB
supports projects that involve partnerships between the
government and the private sector, thereby enabling
governments to tap the private sector financing and
management needed to deliver cost-efficient basic services
and to free up the public budget for social initiatives.
Capitalizing on having public and private
sector operations under one roof, ADB is
able to support government efforts to
attract private sector participation
and to design projects that can be
competitively bid to private sector

developers, and assist the winning
bidder in mobilizing resources for

ADB is expanding and strengthening its
private sector participation in the DMCs
by creating an environment conducive
to pro-poor growth.the project. In Bangladesh, for example, ADB's assistance
resulted in the first build-operate-transfer (BOT) power
project to be awarded to private sponsors. In 2000, ADB
approved a nonsovereign loan to this project, which is being
undertaken by AES Meghnaghat Limited, majority-owned
by the AES Power Corporation of the United States. In Sri
Lanka, ADB accomplished the same result, using an ADB
loan to construct a 163-megawatt BOT power plant under
a 20-year power purchase agreement with the Ceylon
Electricity Board. To mobilize much needed funding for
these projects, ADB, for the first time, issued political risk
guarantees to partially cover currency and convertibility
risks and sovereign breach of contract.

ADB's support is not limited to greenfield projects, as
is illustrated in a loan to the Philippines for the North Luzon
Expressway Rehabilitation and Expansion Project. Recognizing the need to decentralize economic activities in Metro
Manila and support the Government's thrust to develop the
national road network with private sector participation, ADB
supported the Manila North Tollways Corporation, a
public-private consortium, and acted as lead coordinating
bank to mobilize funding from commercial banks and
export credit agencies.

Financial intermediation: Well-functioning financial
systems are needed to promote the private sector; financial
institutions need to be strengthened to develop the domestic
capacity to finance private sector-led growth. To this end, in
2000, ADB joined the Bank of Nova Scotia and Skandinaviska
Enskilda Banken to form the Asian Banking Fund, which seeks
to recapitalize distressed banks in the region that were affected
by the financial crisis. The banking systems can be improved
by introducing prudential risk management policies. This can
supplement the scarce domestic fiscal resources needed to
restore economic growth and create jobs.

Small and medium enterprises: Small and medium
enterprises (SMEs) are major generators of the employment
and income needed to help reduce poverty. ADB helps create
the enabling policy environment for SMEs by promoting the
establishment and provision of business advisory services,
encouraging credit extension to SMEs from commercial
sources, and encouraging the investment of equity funds
that can cater directly to the needs of SMEs. In the People’s
Republic of China (PRC), ADB collaborated with the New
World Group of Hong Kong, China and the Liberty Financial
Group of the United States to set up a fund to invest in the
manufacturing and services sectors to help transform PRC
companies into financially and operationally sound enterprises.
ADB also supported the formation of the Samoa Venture Capital
Fund, designed to contribute to private sector-led economic
growth by improving access of small enterprises in Samoa to

Operational Priorities 33

eee eee eee eee ee ee ee ee

seed capital. Through Thailand’s Small and Medium Size
Enterprises Investment and Restructuring Fund, ADB with
its partners will provide much-needed additional liquidity
to SMEs hit by the financial crisis.

Regional cooperation

Significant progress was made in 2000 in several ADBsupported regional cooperation initiatives, including the
Greater Mekong Subregion (GMS), Central Asian republics,
South Asia, Southeast Asia, and the Pacific. Since its policy
on regional cooperation was approved in 1994, ADB has
played a major catalytic role in promoting such cooperation,
facilitating cross-border investment projects and the flow
of goods and people across national boundaries.

ADB has already provided considerable technical
assistance and loans for investment projects in the GMS and
other subregions, following a phased approach. In each case,
the initial emphasis has been on increasing the understanding
and awareness of DMCs of the potential of intercountry
cooperation, identifying areas for collaboration, and
quantifying the potential benefits. ADB has engaged the
countries in roundtable dialogue on regional priorities and built
agreements for multicountry participation. Project preparatory
technical assistance has then been provided for priority
projects, followed by loans for investments.

ADB's regional cooperation initiatives focus on regions
with the most widespread poverty. The South Asian
initiative, for example, covers a subregion with about
500 million people in poverty, over half of all the poor in
Asia. The poor are the major beneficiaries in ADB’s other
regional cooperation initiatives as well. Development
through regional cooperation is thus an important element
in ADB's overall strategic agenda for reducing poverty.

Greater Mekong Subregion: Economic cooperation
within the GMS (Cambodia, PRC, Lao People's Democratic
Republic, Myanmar, Thailand, and Viet Nam) was initiated
by ADB in 1992. ADB has been a facilitator, catalyst, and,
later, financier of the cooperation effort. Initially, the GMS
program focused on identifying opportunities for regional
cooperation and establishing the mechanisms for countries
to engage in dialogue on the priorities and modalities for
cooperation. This led to two major infrastructure projects
linking the region, and also to complementary agreements
that will facilitate the movement of goods and services across
the region (see box on page 35). In addition to infrastructure
development, the GMS program prioritized human resource
development, environment, tourism, and the needs of ethnic
minorities as important areas for regional cooperation.34 ANNUAL REPORT 2000

eee eee eee ee ee ey

To ensure consistency with ADB's mission
to reduce poverty in its DMCs, the GMS program
was revised in 2000. From 2001 to 2003, the
program will extend benefits of infrastructure
development to the rural and border areas;
address the environmental and social impli- x
cations of pro-poor economic growth; broaden
the participation of stakeholders and civil
society; promote private sector development;
and advocate good governance.

Central Asian republics subregion:
Strengthening regional economic cooperation is especially important for realizing the
development aspirations of the Central Asian
republics (Kazakhstan, Kyrgyz Republic, Tajikistan,
Turkmenistan, and Uzbekistan), particularly in view of their
landlocked location, far from the world's major markets.
Economic growth and sustainable poverty reduction in
Central Asia demand that new relations within the region
and new trading partners and transport links to external
markets be developed.

ADB initiated a program in early 1997 to encourage
economic cooperation in Central Asia. The program, which
includes the Central Asian republics and Azerbaijan and
Xinjiang, PRC, focused on identifying and adopting measures
to reduce and remove infrastructure bottlenecks and policy
impediments to cross-border traffic and trade. Early efforts
were concentrated on consensus building, and preliminary
evaluations of priority regional projects in transport and
energy, which led to regional projects in the road and
electricity subsectors. For example, the Almaty-Bishkek
Regional Road Rehabilitation Project, the first subregional
cooperation project in Central Asia, approved in October
2000, will rehabilitate the link between Almaty in
Kazakhstan and Bishkek in the Kyrgyz Republic.

In 2000, ADB stepped up its support for economic cooperation in Central Asia. Recent initiatives include strengthening
each government's policy-making capacity, assisting with
reforms of key institutions such as customs administrations,
and enhancing information flows on trade and investment in
the region. Consultations on other regional initiatives in
agriculture, rural development, and finance have begun, as
have efforts to promote cooperation in education reforms and
eliminate micronutrient malnutrition. The Subregional
Cooperation in Managing Education Reforms Project is reviewing key education policy issues and development strategies
and advancing collective discussions on experiences and best
practices on the content and process of educational reforms.

South Asia: There was significant progress in promoting subregional cooperation in South Asia in 2000. In line

 

with prevailing conditions and the preferences of the governments in the region, ADB
focused on a project-specific approach, mainly
“8 in support of the South Asia Growth Quadrangle. This subregional cooperation program
was initiated by Bangladesh, Bhutan, India, and
Nepal within the larger framework of the South
Asian Association for Regional Cooperation, to
prepare and implement cross-border projects
in these contiguous countries.

As a first step, ADB supported a Private
Sector Forum in Calcutta in November 2000
to promote subregional projects in priority
sectors. This was followed by a regional
technical assistance project to identify and prioritize
subregional projects, and a small-scale regional technical
assistance to support a regional roundtable for disseminating lessons on the development of information and
communication technology in India and elsewhere.

The first ADB-assisted South Asia subregional investment project is now at an advanced stage of preparation.
Lafarge Surma Cement will transport limestone from a quarry
in Maghalaya, India to a cement plant in Bangladesh through
a cross-border conveyor system. Processing is also under
way for a North-South Road Corridor project from Siliguri
to Haldia in West Bengal, India, with links to border exit
points in Bangladesh, Bhutan, and Nepal; the North-West
Road Corridor from Panchagar to Bangla Bandh in
Bangladesh; and the Fourth Road Improvement Project for
Nepal's East-West Road Corridor, which links to road
corridors in Bangladesh and India through Kakarbita.

East Asia subregions: Opportunities for reviving and
possibly expanding regional cooperation in East Asia
increased in 2000, in part because of the economic recovery
and also because of improving relations among the countries
in Southeast and Northeast Asia.

In December, ADB provided assistance for identifying
options to strengthen economic cooperation between the
PRC and Mongolia.

Economic recovery also helped another group of countries
to use regional cooperation as a development tool. Brunei,
Indonesia, Malaysia, and the Philippines (BIMP) had in 1994
launched the East ASEAN Growth Area (EAGA) or BIMP-EAGA
to accelerate the development of specific subregions in each
country, and in 1995, with ADB assistance a study to define
and implement the BIMP-EAGA initiative had been prepared.
However, the regional effort was put on hold during the Asian
crisis. In 1999, a program to support the development of small
and medium enterprises—meant to revive economic activity
through regional cooperation—took shape. With ADBOperational Priorities 35

eee eee eee eee ee ee ee ee

The East-West Economic Corridor

To maximize the benefits of improved transport linkages,
the Greater Mekong Subregion (GMS) countries adopted
a holistic development approach: an economic corridor—
a well-defined area where infrastructure improvements are
linked with production, trade, and other development
opportunities to promote economic cooperation and
development among contiguous regions or countries. As
their pilot project, the GMS countries selected the
East-West Economic Corridor—a road link of some
1,500 kilometers from Mawlamyine in Myanmar to Da Nang
in Viet Nam. In between, the road goes through Mae Sot,
Tak, Phitsanulok, Khon Kaen, Kalasin, Kuchinarai, and
Mukdahan in Thailand; Savannakhet in the Lao People's
Democratic Republic (Lao PDR); and Quang Tri and Thua
Thien Hue in Viet Nam. By 2004, it will be possible to traverse
90 percent of the Corridor along a modern, all-weather
highway.

In January 2000, the GMS countries reaffirmed the
high priority accorded to developing this Corridor:
infrastructure improvements are either under way or are
being planned for crucial portions; and sections in the Lao
PDR and Viet Nam are being upgraded with concessional
financing from ADB. With Japan Bank for International
Cooperation financing, a second international bridge across
the Mekong River at Mukdahan in Thailand and Savannakhet

assistance, a strategy was prepared that focused on the
region’s poorer areas of Kalimantan and Sulawesi in
Indonesia and Mindanao and Palawan in the Philippines.
Efforts to implement the strategy are ongoing.

A third group of countries—Indonesia, Malaysia, and
Thailand (IMT)—formed their regional cooperation initiative
in 1993. The objective of their growth triangle, the IMT-GT,
was to accelerate private sector-led economic growth and
development in the region. ADB assistance led to the
preparation of an IMT-GT development strategy.

The Pacific: ADB supports regional cooperation in the
Pacific in the areas of fisheries, civil aviation, financial sector
reforms, public sector management, and governance.

A regional technical assistance for conserving and
managing tuna resources in the western and central Pacific
Ocean helped lead to a high-level agreement on the future
of this important resource. In addition, ADB is assisting the
Pacific DMCs in combating destructive fishing practices in
relation to the live reef fish trade.

Given the size and remoteness of some Pacific DMCs,
economic viability and efficiency in civil aviation are
enhanced through cooperation. In 2000, ADB approved a
regional technical assistance on cooperative airspace

in the Lao PDR is being constructed, and the Da Nang Port
in the central coast of Viet Nam is being rehabilitated. Road
improvements along the Corridor in the Lao PDR are being
funded by the Japan International Cooperation Agency. The
World Bank is providing funds for maintaining Highway
No. 1 in Viet Nam, which links the Corridor to the eastern
anchor port city of Da Nang. Complementing these
improvements is the recent signing of a trilateral crossborder agreement by Lao PDR, Thailand, and Viet Nam to
facilitate the transborder movement of goods and people
between and among the three countries.

ADB financed the Preinvestment Study for the East-West
Economic Corridor to formulate the cooperation and
development framework. The study covered five sectors—
agro-industry, trade and investment, physical infrastructure, industrial estate/export processing zones, and
tourism—and indicated the considerable potential for
development in each. Complementarities exist, especially
trade and processing of agricultural and other primary
products. Harmonizing regional development strategies
and reducing trade barriers would lead to formalized and
accelerated cross-border trade, and eventually to intraindustry and intrafirm trade. There is, moreover, scope
for light manufacturing and other nonagricultural activities,
and considerable potential for tourism.

management in the Pacific in response to growing recognition of the benefits of regional cooperation in this area.

Relatively weak financial sectors constrain foreign
direct and private investment. An ADB-assisted review of
he financial sectors in seven Pacific DMCs, completed in
2000, identified key constraints and facilitated dialogue
among the Pacific DMCs for regional solutions, including
he possibility of electronically linking regional stock
exchanges. Another initiative will establish a regional
investment opportunities database for circulation among

otential foreign investors.

Another major constraint facing private investment in the

Pacific is utility services for domestic and industrial consumers.
in 2000, ADB continued to promote regional cooperation
among utility providers through the Pacific Power Association
and the Pacific Water Association. In collaboration with these
organizations, ADB is undertaking an initiative that will lead
‘o the establishment of performance benchmarks for such
services in the region.
Collaboration among Pacific DMCs also includes management courses for public sector managers (organized with ADB
institute); judicial training; and support for the Pacific Technical
Assistance Center (with the International Monetary Fund).36 ANNUAL REPORT 2000

eee eee eee ee ee ey

Law and policy reform

Law and policy reform is at the heart of good governance,
supporting the legal and institutional framework for predictability, transparency, accountability, and participation. Over
the years, ADB has provided numerous loan and technical
assistance projects with law and policy reform components.
In addition, stand-alone technical assistance grants focusing
on law and policy reform has been provided for private
sector development, particularly for finance, banking, and
corporate governance; judicial reform; legal training; dissemination of legal information; and environmental protection.

In 2000, ADB continued to pursue law and policy reform
by establishing and building the capacity of the legal and
regulatory systems of its DMCs. To support ADB’s main goal
of reducing poverty, work continued on the Legal Literacy
for Supporting Governance Project, which aims primarily
to demonstrate the contribution of legal literacy (legal
empowerment) to poverty reduction, good governance, and
other development goals (see box below).

Other activities in 2000 included addressing systemic
judicial and legal reforms—one of the biggest challenges
facing many ADB DMCs. From the lessons of an earlier
project, ADB approved technical assistance to build capacity
for reform in Pakistan and to pilot test some of those reforms,
including projects to reduce court delays. The project will
initiate key governance and institutional reforms, including
appointing a judicial policy-making body at the national
level, and creating a judicial development fund. Work also
began on developing a project to help strengthen the fiscal
and administrative autonomy and accountability of the
Philippines’ judiciary, and improve the appointment process
and incentive system for judges.

ADB also approved projects in support of its governance
strategy and anticorruption efforts. A technical assistance
for countering money laundering in Asia and the Pacific,
together with the Asia-Pacific Group on Money Laundering,
will identify institutional and regulatory reforms required
in the nine participating DMCs to comply with international
standards. Payments systems, criminal and civil laws
relating to money laundering, and institutional and
organizational arrangements to counter money laundering,
including law enforcement agencies and financial
intelligence units, will be examined in each DMC.

Also in 2000, ADB approved a corporate and financial
governance project in Nepal, which will upgrade the legal
and regulatory framework, standards, and policies in the
corporate and financial sectors, and assist Nepal in
establishing a training institute for lawyers and judges.

As part of its assistance for law and policy reform in
the financial sector, ADB contributed to the regional
debate on issues of insolvency and secured transactions
law reform in Asia and the Pacific. In 2000, ADB published
two reports that examined the issues: “Insolvency Law
Reforms in the Asian and Pacific Region” and “Secured
Transactions Law Reform in Asia: Unleashing the
Potential of Collateral” (Volumes | and II of Law and Policy
Reform at the Asian Development Bank). The first report
established 16 good practice standards of a basic
framework for an acceptable insolvency law regime. The
regime could serve as a tool for DMCs to assess their
own insolvency law regimes and assist in identifying and
developing appropriate standards. The second report
provided a comprehensive analysis of the elements
necessary for creating a secured transactions regime that
can promote the economic benefits resulting from an

Legal Empowerment: Advancing Good Governance and Poverty Reduction

 

Social exclusion and disempowerment are unhappy aspects
of poverty. Under its regional technical assistance project
on Legal Literacy for Supporting Governance, ADB studied
the effectiveness of legal literacy activities in empowering
the excluded and the disadvantaged in Bangladesh,
Indonesia, Mongolia, Pakistan, Philippines, Thailand, and
Viet Nam. It also examined the role legal literacy could play
in promoting good governance and reducing poverty, and
concluded that legal literacy is part of a larger objective to
empower the disadvantaged.

Legal empowerment is not the same as promoting
the rule of law, although the two overlap. While legal
empowerment has strong rule of law implications, it focuses
directly on the disadvantaged and on how the law can be

used to advance rights and interests in the vast array of
development fields that do not feature the rule of law
per se. Legal empowerment thus bridges the gap between
the rule of law and socioeconomic development. Where
appropriate, it integrates the rule of law into other
development priorities and fields.

The study recommended that legal empowerment
should be integrated into development projects; partnerships with civil society, including nongovernment
organizations, should be formed as much as possible in
development work; and clinical education and other law
school assistance should be supported to increase the
number of lawyers having development-oriented skills and
a willingness to work with the poor.Unleashing the Potential of Collateral

Secured transactions are those in which a debtor gives
a creditor a security interest in movable property (not
land, but including fixtures, equipment, goods,
documents, and other intangibles) to assure the creditor
of the debtor's payment or performance of obligations.
Secured transactions laws, which govern the creation,
priority, publicity, and enforcement of security interests,
enable movable property to serve as collateral.

A recent ADB study, which drew on a regional
technical assistance project covering People's Republic
of China, India, Indonesia, Pakistan, and Thailand, highlights
the importance of secured transactions, including their
potential contribution to economic growth and poverty
reduction. Secured transactions enhance access to credit
of small and medium enterprises, microfinance institutions,
and “new economy” companies in ADB developing
member countries (DMCs). Their importance in mitigating
the vulnerability of financial systems by diversifying credit
channels is covered in the study, as is the potential
contribution of secured transactions to stronger corporate
governance by creditors and better transparency in
registration of security interests. The study recognizes
the challenges facing DMCs seeking to reform their
secured transactions laws. In the absence of international
best practices, the study analyzes elements that could
form the foundation of an effective secured transactions
regime that balances the rights of secured creditors and
vulnerable social groups (for example, labor) with the
need for companies to be rehabilitated. The study, Law
and Policy Reform at the Asian Development Bank, 2000,
may be accessed at http://www.adb.org/law.

efficient system to establish and enforce security interests
over movable property (see box above).

Strengthening legal capacity in its DMCs has been a
hallmark of ADB's law and policy reform activities. In 2000,
following ADB assistance for drafting Cambodia's new land
law, a project was approved to train the judges, other
members of the legal community, and the technical staff
responsible for implementing this legislation. The project's
legal empowerment component will ensure that the intended
beneficiaries can assert their rights under the new law.

Social dimensions of development

People must be at the center of development. To be effective
and sustainable, development must serve the interests,
needs, and aspirations of the people it addresses. Social

Operational Priorities 37

eee eee eee eee ee ee ee ee

development is crosscutting and multifaceted, and is integral
to reducing poverty and improving the welfare and quality
of life of target beneficiaries.

ADB's social development agenda focuses on indigenous
peoples, involuntary resettlement, and participatory development. In 2000, achievements were realized in all three areas.

Indigenous peoples: ADB's policy on indigenous
peoples, adopted in 1998, provides that ADB-assisted
development interventions will ensure that affected peoples
are at least as well-off as they would have been in the absence
of an intervention, and that appropriate and acceptable
compensation will be provided in cases where negative
impacts cannot be avoided. The policy ensures that ADB
interventions are consistent with the needs and aspirations
of affected peoples; compatible in substance and structure with
the affected peoples' cultural, social, and economic institutions;
and conceived, planned, and implemented with the informed
participation of affected peoples and communities.

In 2000, ADB's Social Development Division (SOCD)
continued to monitor and provide guidance in matters
related to indigenous peoples in ADB operations. In
addition, SOCD continued to identify project initiatives that
addressed their concerns directly, and prepared an inventory
of ADB's projects that targeted or affected indigenous
peoples. In May 2000, at ADB’s 33 Annual Meeting in
Chiang Mai, Thailand the first Indigenous Peoples Forum
was held. In December 2000, operational guidelines for
implementing ADB’s indigenous peoples' policy were
approved by the President.

A regional technical assistance for Capacity Building
for Indigenous Peoples/Ethnic Minority Issues and Poverty
Reduction, which resulted from the Indigenous Peoples
Forum, was approved. The Project, which covers Cambodia,
Indonesia, Philippines, and Viet Nam, aims to improve the
implementation quality of ADB-financed projects and build
the capacity of both governments and indigenous peoples’
and ethnic minorities’ groups. SOCD prepared profiles for
selected countries to assist ADB's operational departments
in early identification of indigenous peoples in project areas.

Also in 2000, ADB networking with other development
institutions, indigenous peoples' organizations, and funding
agencies, including the World Bank and the International
Labour Organisation, was strengthened.

Involuntary resettlement: ADB's policy on involuntary
resettlement, approved in 1995, addresses involuntary loss of
income, assets, services, and resources resulting from
ADB-assisted development interventions. The policy's main
premise is to avoid involuntary resettlement whenever
possible, minimize resettlement impacts, and mitigate any
remaining unavoidable resettlement effects. When settlement38 ANNUAL REPORT 2000

eee eee eee ee ee ey

is required, project-specific resettlement plans should be
prepared, implemented, and monitored.

Through country-specific and regional technical
assistance in 2000, ADB addressed key areas of resettlement
policy development in its DMCs, including Cambodia, PRC,
India, Indonesia, Nepal, Pakistan, Philippines, Sri Lanka, and
Viet Nam. These initiatives will result in enhanced national
resettlement policy frameworks. ADB conducted several
training programs on the resettlement policy for staff of DMC
project executing agencies, and initiated technical
assistance in the PRC and India to strengthen national
capacity for social impact assessment, including resettlement.

Also in 2000, ADB staff participated in several conferences and workshops related to resettlement, as resource
persons and in collaboration with other funding agencies, such
as a workshop on urban resettlement funded by the United
Kingdom's Department for International Development.

A review of the involuntary resettlement policy—begun
in 1999 and completed in 2000—addressed proactive
approaches to capacity building for resettlement in relation
to poverty reduction and the complexities
of urban resettlement. A special evaluation
study of the policy impact of involuntary
resettlement was also completed in
2000. Strategies to address the
impoverishment risks of
involuntary resettlement
are being developed.

Participatory development: People’s participation—an important
aspect of ADB operations—is being pursued in
project and technical

  
 
 
 
  

assistance activities, country programming, and policy
development. Participation empowers people to influence
decisions regarding development that affects them and their
resources. A sense of ownership over development activities
often motivates their sustained involvement in projects an
helps ensure the effectiveness and long-term success of
development investments. Participation also relates to
institutions at local, regional, and national levels, and civi
society, government, and the private sector—all partners in
development. As participation in shared decision making
expands, the basis for increased competency, integrity, an
accountability in public and corporate governance also
expands. Social capital—the diverse, trust-based, an
normatively reinforced networks in society—is fostered through
participation, contributing to effective social safety nets for
the poor and other vulnerable groups.

In 2000, a regional technical assistance project provide
financial support for more than 20 small-scale projects that
promoted stakeholder participation in project design an
provided capacity-building support in participatory

development. This was the second project of its type.
Also in 2000, guidelines for incorporating
participation in country strategy and program
‘st development and in project design were prepared.
Work began on a regional technical assistance
project to develop case studies of sustained
participation in development in
Asia and the Pacific.

 

eee eeeceeee
ADB health projects are often
prepared and implemented
with the participation and
collaboration of
nongovernment organizations.

Participatory Poverty Assessment in the Lao PDR

 

ADB and the World Bank, together with the Government
of the Lao People's Democratic Republic, conducted a
participatory poverty assessment (PPA) from May to July
2000. Based on the quantitative analysis from Lao
Expenditure and Consumption Surveys, 100 villages and
40 districts were selected from the 18 provinces
nationwide for the PPA.

From September to October 2000, following the field
visits, extensive consultations—including a dissemination
workshop and a gender and poverty workshop at the provincial level—were held to discuss the findings with civil
society, nongovernment organizations, and various funding communities.

The initial findings of the PPA, together with the
Medium-Term Expenditure Framework/Public Investment
Program, were presented and discussed at the Seventh
Roundtable Meeting in Vientiane in November 2000. A video
entitled Listening and Learning from the Poor, jointly produced
by the Government and ADB, was presented at the Meeting
to facilitate discussions. The Meeting served as the High-Level
Poverty Forum as envisaged in ADB's poverty reduction strategy.
Based on the findings of the PPA, the Government will refine
the Public Investment Program to better reflect the needs
of the poor. The Government also indicated that it plans
to institutionalize the participatory planning process to
implement more people-centered development.Cooperation with nongovernment
organizations

Cooperation with nongovernment organizations (NGOs)
strengthens the effectiveness, sustainability, and quality of
development assistance that ADB provides. ADB's policy
on such cooperation states that ADB should work with NGOs
and incorporate NGO experience, knowledge, and expertise
into its operations, so that its development efforts can more
effectively address the issues and priorities of its DMCs.
NGOs often hold comparative advantages in representing
people and identifying development needs, designing
effective programs that reach people, and representing
alternative ideas and views in development. Active
cooperation is a policy mandate of ADB.

ADB's processes for engaging NGOs were strengthened
in 2000, with increased importance on consultation and
dialogue in project and technical assistance activities, country
programming, and policy development. ADB's 33" Annual
Meeting was a significant point of contact with NGOs, both
within the framework of the Annual Meeting and through
the engagement with civil society representatives outside

Cooperating with Nongovernment

Organizations

 

A total of 45 public sector projects, or 64 percent of
the public sector projects approved in 2000, involved
nongovernment organizations (NGOs) in some
significant way. For example, when preparing its
assistance for flood victims in southwest Bangladesh
in 2000, ADB drew on the experiences of microfinance
NGOs who had spearheaded effective, long-term relief
programs, and linked up with the Palli Karma Sahayak
Foundation (PKSF) through the Social Rehabilitation
Fund component of a larger flood rehabilitation
project. ADB channeled $10 million to PKSF and its
partner organizations to onlend to poor families whose
houses had been destroyed by the floods. The Fund
will be self-replenishing and available for future
disasters. In Papua New Guinea, NGOs and ADB are
working together to develop on-site, low-cost
technology solutions to sanitation where conventional
sewerage is unavailable. NGOs and the national Board
of Water will pilot test low-cost solutions identified
through stakeholder participation under the Provincial
Towns Water Supply and Sanitation Project. Most lowcost solutions available are already being implemented
by NGOs, and the Project will replicate these solutions
by linking with ongoing development programs in the
settlements.

Operational Priorities 39

eee eee eee eee ee ee ee ee

that framework. Consultation with NGOs gained significantly
higher importance in ADB's country contact missions in both
DMCs and donor countries.

In 2000, ADB reviewed its existing institutional
arrangements for cooperation with NGOs. The review
reflected emerging objectives in NGO cooperation, new
areas of NGO engagement, and developments in both ADB's
internal environment and the NGO sector that affect
ADB-NGO relations. It also identified issues, challenges, and
measures to be taken by ADB to strengthen its relationships
with NGOs. The most significant of these measures was the
creation of a network within ADB to mainstream NGO
concerns in ADB operations and an NGO center to
coordinate this network.

Capacity building for NGOs, within the context of NGO
assistance, has emerged as a priority in ADB. Two regional
technical assistance projects in 2000 addressed NGO
capacity building specifically. One project, being implemented in cooperation with the Asia Foundation, is working
toward developing training resources for NGOs in the areas
of financial resource mobilization and management.
Building on an information gathering component, countryspecific training materials will be developed. The other
project addresses NGO capacity-building needs in ADB's
Pacific DMCs. A Pacific regional stakeholder workshop held
in 2000 identified priority capacity-building needs and
measures for addressing these needs. Also in 2000, ADB
worked with the International Forum on Capacity Building—
a global, multistakeholder effort that works toward
strengthening the capacity of NGOs in developing
countries—in conducting an Asian and Pacific regional
workshop for NGO capacity building. A regional technical
assistance project designed to promote gender-inclusive
development practices in ADB's DMCs included a component
that provided direct funding to women’s NGOs for capacitybuilding initiatives.

In the area of sustainable development and poverty
reduction, a regional technical assistance project implemented in 2000 supported regional NGO workshops
designed to explore needs and new initiatives. The project
brought together representatives of Asian and Pacific NGOs
and representatives of news media, who address environmental issues, to share and discuss areas of potential
cooperation. The outcomes of the project were a direct input
into the sustainable development and poverty reduction
efforts being undertaken by ADB and development agencies
of the United Nations, and became a part of the regional
Ministerial Conference on Environment and Development,
organized by the Economic and Social Commission for Asia
and the Pacific.Operationsn 2000, the Asian Development Bank (ADB) continued to improve its lending portfolio and intensified its efforts
to mobilize resources and improve project management. The private sector portfolio grew, and private sector
operations continued to focus on the infrastructure and financial sectors where ADB has good technical experience.
To achieve better project results and to harmonize its evaluation practices and standards with those of other multilateral
funding agencies, ADB adopted a new classification system for its independent evaluations of project performance.

Lending

Lending for both public and private sector operations in 2000
amounted to $5.85 billion for 90 loans in 74 projects,
compared with $4.98 billion for 66 loans in 52 projects in
1999. The rise in lending amount is attributable, in part, to
the increased number of projects.

Of the total lending, loans with government guarantee
were $5.7 billion for 70 projects, comprising $4.1 billion from
ordinary capital resources (OCR) and $1.6 billion from the
Asian Development Fund (ADF). Lending to the private
sector without government guarantee amounted to
$156 million for four loans. In line with ADB's main objective
to reduce poverty, social infrastructure received the highest
share of loans amounting to $1.4 billion or 24 percent
of total lending in 2000, followed by transport and
communications, energy, and agriculture and natural
resources. For details, see Tables 1-11 in the Statistical Annex.

Technical assistance

In 2000, 306 technical assistance grants totaling $172 million
were approved. Of this, the largest share (18 percent) went
to social infrastructure, followed by agriculture and natural
resources.

Resource transfers

The net transfer of resources! from ADB to its developing
member countries (DMCs) decreased from $1.7 billion in
1999 to $3.7 million in 2000. During the year the net transfers
to ADF borrowers were $782.1 million ($793.7 million in
1999). However, compared with the net transfers to OCR
borrowers of $925.3 million in 1999, there was a net inflow
of $778.4 million to ADB from OCR borrowers in 2000, mainly
resulting from lower OCR loan disbursements ($2.9 billion
in 2000, $3.7 billion in 1999) and higher OCR loan

ADB Operations

 

 

STII i
ES) 2000 aie ie
Lending
OCR 3,908.1 4,257.9 9.0
ADF 1,070.5 1,592.5 48.8
Total Lending 4,978.6 5,850.4 17.5
Equity Investments 7.4 78.2 956.8
Technical Assistance
Grants? 173.0 172.0 (0.6)
Total 5,159.0 6,100.6 18.2

a Including regional activities.

Resource Transfers to
Developing Member Countries ($ million)

1999 2000

OCR

Loan Disbursements 3,710 2,884
Principal Repayments? (1,130) (1,835)
Payments of Interest/Charges (1,671) (1,818)
Net Equity Investment 16 (9)
Net 925 (778)

ADF 794 782
Total 1,719 4

() Represents resource inflow from developing member countries.
a Includes prepayments of $693 million ($75 million—1999).

prepayments ($693.4 million in 2000, $74.6 million in 1999).
For details, see Tables 29-30 in the Statistical Annex.

Loan disbursements reached $4.0 billion, compared
with $4.8 billion in 1999. The decrease was mainly because
of higher program loan disbursements in 1999. For details,
see Table 12 in the Statistical Annex.

The 2000 disbursement ratio,’ including program loans,
decreased slightly to 20.5 percent from 22.2 percent in 1999

1 Defined as disbursements less principal repayments and prepayments, payments of interest and other charges, plus net equity investments.
2 Defined as ratio of total disbursements during the year over the net loan amount available at the beginning of the year, plus the loan amounts
of newly approved loans that have become effective during the year; excludes private sector loans.42 ANNUAL REPORT 2000

eee eee eee ee ee ey

Disbursements and Net Transfer
of ADB Resources to DMCs, 2000
($ million)

800 ~400 200 600 1,000 1,400 1,800 2,200

Group A
Group B1
Group B2

Group C

Regional

Other DMCs

Hl Net Transfer
MS) Disbursements

See box on page 43 for classification of DMC groups.

because of relatively higher program disbursements in 1999
in response to the Asian financial crisis.

Loan service payments reached $4.0 billion in 2000,
compared with $3.1 billion in 1999. The increase was
mainly because of higher OCR loan prepayments from
People’s Republic of China (PRC), India, Republic of Korea,
and Thailand.

By volume of net resource transfer, PRC, Viet Nam,
Bangladesh, and Pakistan received the largest net transfers
from ADB in 2000.

Cofinancing and guarantee operations

ADB's continuing proactive approach to cofinancing in 2000
assisted its DMCs in obtaining additional financial resources
in the form of grants and loans from bilateral and multilateral
funding agencies, as well as from commercial sources.

In 2000, cofinancing mobilized from all sources amounted
to about $3.0 billion, equivalent to about 51 percent of ADB's
total lending of $5.85 billion. This was the second year in a
row in which cofinancing was arranged for more than
50 percent of ADB's projects. Transport and communications
sector projects accounted for 61 percent of total cofinancing
in 2000, social infrastructure for 17 percent, energy for
13 percent, and industry and nonfuel minerals for 5 percent.
For details, see Table 7 in the Statistical Annex.

A record 41 projects in 16 DMCs received cofinancing
in 2000, compared with 27 projects in 14 DMCs in 1999.
The PRC received the largest amount, with about
$1.7 billion of cofinancing (primarily from its domestic
financial institutions), followed by the Philippines with
$244.3 million, Nepal with $226.0 million, and Bangladesh

with $188.6 million. Tajikistan and Uzbekistan received their
first cofinanced loans in 2000.

During 1970-2000, 557 ADB-assisted loan projects and
programs received cofinancing in an aggregate amount of
about $35.0 billion, consisting of $21.7 billion from official
sources, $8.1 billion from commercial sources, and $5.2 billion
from export credit sources. The energy sector accounted
for $15.0 billion (or 43 percent), followed by transport and
communications ($7.5 billion or 21 percent), agriculture and
natural resources ($4.0 billion or 12 percent), social
infrastructure ($3.0 billion or 9 percent), financial ($2.0 billion
or 6 percent), and others ($3.5 billion or 9 percent).

Official cofinancing: Cofinancing from official sources
amounted to $557.1 million in 2000, a decrease of about
72 percent from the 1999 figure of $2.0 billion. However,
29 projects received official cofinancing in 2000, compared
with 23 in 1999. The significant decrease in the amount of
official cofinancing was mainly because of the slippage of
several large projects to 2001. On the other hand, the
increase in the number of cofinanced projects can be
attributed to ADB’s emphasis on reducing poverty, which
resulted in a dramatic increase in the demand for grant
cofinancing for the poverty reduction components of ADB
projects. Bilateral cofinancing support for ADB loan projects
was received from Australia, Denmark, France, Japan,
Netherlands, Norway, Sweden, Switzerland, United Kingdom,
and United States. The European Bank for Reconstruction and
Development (EBRD) provided $25 million for the AlmatyBishkek Regional Road Rehabilitation Project, which is ADB's
first cofinancing operation with EBRD. Other major multiateral cofinanciers were the Global Environment Facility,
international Fund for Agricultural Development, International
Development Agency, International Finance Corporation,
islamic Development Bank, Nordic Development Fund, and
he OPEC Fund for International Development.

Technical assistance grants from official donors were
actively pursued in 2000. In addition to Japan’s annual
contribution to the Japan Special Fund (JSF), Australia, Belgium,
Denmark, Finland, Netherlands, New Zealand, Norway, and
Switzerland contributed untied grants for technical assistance
rojects. In 2000, untied grants for which ADB acted as the
grant administrator amounted to $40.2 million.

Under the JSF, funded by the Government of Japan, a total
of $77.1 million for 113 technical assistance projects was
financed on an untied basis in 2000, accounting for 45 percent
of all technical assistance approvals. For details, see Japan
Special Fund Technical Assistance by Sector, 2000 on page 138.

The Asian Currency Crisis Support Facility (ACCSF), also
unded by the Government of Japan, continued to provide
assistance to DMCs affected by the financial crisis. SevenCofinancing Arrangements, 1996-2000
($ million)

Q 700

1,400

2,100 2,800 3,500

 
  
  

2000 EES

1996 EAvee}

MS Official
©) Commercial
Ml Export Credit

technical assistance projects for $7.6 million were approved
in 2000. For details, see Asian Currency Crisis Support Facility
Technical Assistance by Sector, 2000 on page 140.

Out of an initial contribution from the Government of
Japan in the amount of 10 billion yen (about $92.6 million),
the Japan Fund for Poverty Reduction (JFPR) financed a total
of $7.5 million for five innovative poverty reduction and related
social development activities in conjunction with ADB-financed
projects. The JFPR-supported activities include direct support
to vulnerable populations in Indonesia, to the poor in rural
areas in the Philippines, and to the poor in urban areas in
Papua New Guinea and the Philippines. For details, see Japan
Fund for Poverty Reduction, Grant Assistance by Sector, 2000
on page 141 and Table 35 in the Statistical Annex.

Operations 43

eee eee eee eee ee ee ee

Channel financing agreements were approved with the
governments of Denmark and Spain for a total amount of
untied grant funds equivalent to $4.0 million. In addition,
the Government of the Netherlands established a Cooperation Fund for Promotion of Renewable Energy and Energy
Efficiency for an initial amount of $6.0 million. Working
arrangements have been established with the Global
Environment Facility (GEF) for the transfer of project
preparatory grant funds to ADB. About $2.0 million in project
preparatory technical assistance grants from GEF is expected
to lead to about $74.0 million in GEF grants for components
of the ensuing loan projects.

Commercial cofinancing: Commercial cofinancing
amounted to a record $2.3 billion for 14 projects in 2000, an
increase of about 200 percent over the $740.0 million arranged
in 1999. This includes about $1.7 billion of cofinancing from
domestic financial institutions in Cambodia, PRC, India,
Kazakhstan, Pakistan, Philippines, and Viet Nam. Two complementary financing scheme loans were arranged: one for a
power project in Bangladesh and another for an expressway
rehabilitation and expansion project in the Philippines.

Guarantees: In 2000, ADB approved a partial credit
guarantee for a power transmission project in India
($120.0 million), and its first three political risk guarantees
for a power project in Bangladesh ($70.0 million), another
in Sri Lanka ($52.0 million); and a small and medium enterprise trade finance program in Pakistan ($150.0 million).

Export credit cofinancing: ADB has entered into
cooperation agreements with many of the leading export
credit agencies (ECAs) as part of ADB’s ECA collaboration

Classification of ADB's Developing Members

A revised classification system for ADB's developing member
countries (DMCs), approved by the Board of Directors in
December 1998, took effect on 1 January 1999. Two criteria—
per capita gross national product and debt repayment
capacity—are used to determine the classification of borrowing DMCs into Groups A, B1, B2, and C.' This system determines
the degree of eligibility to borrow from the Asian Development
Fund (ADF), applicable ceiling on ADB financing, and minimum
share of government contribution to technical assistance costs.

Group A (ADF only) includes Afghanistan, Bhutan,
Cambodia, Kiribati, Kyrgyz Republic, Lao People’s Democratic
Republic, Maldives, Mongolia, Myanmar, Nepal, Samoa,
Solomon Islands, Tajikistan, Tuvalu, and Vanuatu.

1 Azerbaijan and Turkmenistan have not been classified.

Group B1 (ADF with limited amounts of ordinary
capital resources [OCR]) includes Bangladesh, Cook Islands,”
Marshall Islands, Federated States of Micronesia, Pakistan,
Sri Lanka, Tonga, and Viet Nam.

Group B2 (OCR with limited amounts of ADF) includes
People’s Republic of China, India, Indonesia,? Nauru, and
Papua New Guinea.

Group C (OCR only) includes Fiji Islands, Kazakhstan,
Malaysia, Philippines, Thailand, and Uzbekistan.

In addition, the criteria for graduation from regular ADB
assistance have been established. Four members—Hong Kong,
China; Republic of Korea; Singapore; and Taipei, China—have
graduated from regular ADB assistance.

2 Limited eligibility for OCR will be applied only after the external debt position improves.

3 On a watch list for graduation from ADF.44 ANNUAL REPORT 2000

eee eee eee ee ee ey

Total Cost of Loan Projects and
Sources of Financing,*? 2000

oliaey
27%

Beneficiaries/
Subborrowers

 

Total: $13.1 billion

a_ Includes cofinancing from official, export credit, and commercial sources; equity
sponsors; and local participating private companies and financial institutions.

strategy. The strategy encourages the use of export credit
cofinancing in public sector projects requiring significant
amounts of imported procurement, and enables ADB and ECAs
to work more closely and innovatively to finance projects
undertaken by private sector sponsors. In 2000, export credit
cofinancing totaled $148.0 million and was provided by
Compagnie Francaise d'Assurance pour le Commerce
Exterieur (COFACE), Export Finance and Insurance Corporation of Australia, and Export-Import Bank of Malaysia
Berhad for two projects in the Philippines and Viet Nam.

Portfolio management

Portfolio performance: To strengthen the linkage between
country performance and the allocation of scarce resources,
ADB continues to emphasize the importance of managing
and maintaining a healthy project portfolio.

Country portfolio reviews (CPRs) are gradually being
expanded in terms of country coverage and frequency. In
many cases, CPRs are led by ADB's resident representative.
Each CPR, combining high-level ADB and DMC representation,
examines the country portfolio by sector, raises systemic
portfolio issues, and highlights performance indicators that
do not meet established criteria. A time-bound action plan is
prepared to rectify performance problems and forms the basis
for follow-up discussions on portfolio performance. Where
feasible, joint CPRs are now being conducted with the Japan
Bank for International Cooperation and the World Bank.

In 2000, ADB began implementing a portfolio management action plan (PMAP), which operationalized the
recommendations contained in the report, Toward Real
Portfolio Management: Final Report of the Working Group on

Spring-Cleaning. The PMAP provides a framework for
enhancing the development impact in DMCs by strengthening portfolio management, developing portfolio management principles in both ADB and its DMCs, and introducing
disciplined supervision of projects and technical assistance.
In line with the PMAP, country, sector, and project
performance indicators will be developed for monitoring
and measuring achievements. Indicators will include the
“at risk” concept, which is a measure of the potential for
a project or a portfolio to decline in performance.

The multilateral development banks and international
financial institutions formed a Procurement Cooperation
Group in 1998 to harmonize procurement documentation.
The Group agreed in 1999 on a master bidding document
for the procurement of goods and related services. In 2000,
ADB's customized version of these bidding documents was
finalized and posted on the ADB web site. Work on a master
prequalification document for civil works, and for consultant
recruitment continued in 2000, with expected completion
in mid-2001. The Procurement Cooperation Group is
discussing the need to develop a common framework for
guidelines on procurement and on engaging consultants.

Project administration: A total of 90 new loans were
approved in 2000: 86 were public sector and 4 were private
sector loans. This brought the number of loans under
administration to 545, comprising 496 loans in the public
sector and 49 in the private sector. Of the public sector loan
projects, implementation progress for 393 loans was rated
satisfactory in terms of the financial, physical, and project
aspects of implementation, including 31 loans rated highly
satisfactory. On the other hand, 103 loans were rated less than
satisfactory: all encountered implementation or operational
problems. In terms of achieving their development objectives,
453 loans were rated satisfactory (including 8 rated highly satisfactory), while 43 loans were rated less than satisfactory. These
ratings resulted from an assessment of the development outputs, impacts, or benefits expected from various project
components and logframes. The combined unsatisfactory and
partly satisfactory ratings represent 22.6 percent of the portfolio by number and 30.1 percent by value ($10.2 billion).

To improve portfolio performance, more intensive and
effective supervision of unsatisfactory and partly satisfactory
projects is needed. Initiatives under the PMAP are intended
to improve the transparency and accuracy of reporting project
ratings, and—using the “at risk” concept—to identify potential
problem projects at an early stage of implementation. Remedial
measures will thus be undertaken to prevent a deterioration
in project progress and portfolio performance.

Altogether, 723 project administration missions,
including private sector loan and multiproject reviews, werefielded to assess project progress and discuss the problems;
to improve portfolio performance; and to strengthen the
linkages between country and sector performance, including
joint project reviews with the World Bank and other
multilateral development banks. A total of 8,668 persondays
(or an average of 14.4 persondays per project) were spent
on these project reviews. Country portfolio review missions
were undertaken in 19 DMCs to discuss with senior
government officials implementation problems, timely
submission of audited project accounts and audited financial
statements, cross-sectoral issues, and remedial measures.
Special portfolio restructuring for Indonesia and the
Philippines was undertaken; during the review missions,
$202.1 million was identified for cancellation.

ADB's regional and resident missions continued to play
an important role in project implementation. In accordance
with ADB's policy on resident missions, three new missions—
People’s Republic of China, Mongolia, and Thailand—were
approved in 2000. Two special offices—the Philippines Country
Office and the Special Liaison Office for East Timor—were
also established. The delegation to the field offices of major
operational functions such as country programming, project
processing, and portfolio management was initiated. As of
end-2000, administration of a total of 10 loans for 10 projects
had been delegated to the resident missions in Bangladesh,
Indonesia, and Pakistan.

Eighty-seven projects were completed during the year,
bringing the cumulative number of completed projects to 1,382.
Fifty-one project completion reports were circulated in 2000,
bringing the total number of reports prepared as of end2000 to 928. For details, see Table 14 in the Statistical Annex.

Contract awards: Contract awards totaling $3.4 billion
(excluding contracts for technical assistance projects) were
awarded in 2000 by executing agencies in DMCs for consulting
services and procuring goods, related services, and civil works.
This represented a 27 percent decrease from 1999, because
1999 included contract awards related to the Asian financial
crisis and 2000 contract awards fell short of projections for
several large borrowers. Consultancy contracts under loan
projects totaled $192.8 million and involved 312 consulting
contracts (97 international and 215 domestic). For details,
see Tables 15-23 in the Statistical Annex.

Loan disbursements: The 2000 loan disbursements—
$4.0 billion—fell short of the year's target of $4.5 billion by
11 percent and the 1999 figures by 16.7 percent. OCR
disbursements amounted to $2.9 billion and ADF disbursements to $1.1 billion, representing 72.5 percent and 27.5 percent of the total amount, respectively. Disbursements were
lower than projections in 2000 because of delays in fulfilling
program conditionalities and slower than expected project

Operations 45

eee eee eee eee ee ee ee

Contract Awards and Disbursements,
1996-2000 (cumulative, end of year)
($ billion)

1996 1997 1998 1999 2000
80

Net Effective Loans
60

Contract Awards

Disbursements
40

 

20

implementation. Lower disbursements in 2000 compared
with 1999 are attributable to relatively higher remaining
program disbursements in 1999 as a result of the Asian
financial crisis. Disbursements in 1999 and 2000 by lending
modality are shown in Table 12 in the Statistical Annex.

Project implementation and administration
seminars: Nine seminars were held on project implementation and administration, with a total of 342 DMC representatives participating in the two-week sessions. Of the
nine, six in-country seminars were conducted, one each in
Bangladesh, India, Indonesia, Kazakhstan, and Nepal, and
ajoint seminar in Tajikistan and Uzbekistan, with an average
of 35 participants per country; two regional seminars were
held, one at ADB headquarters and another in Papua New
Guinea; and one training-of-trainers program was held in
the People’s Republic of China. Eight seminars on the use
of consultants (attended by 278 participants) were held in
India, Kyrgyz Republic, Lao People's Democratic Republic,
Nepal, Pakistan, Thailand, Uzbekistan, and Viet Nam. Seminars on developing domestic consulting services were also
held in Thailand and Viet Nam, attended by 153 participants.

The seminars are part of a systematic and long-term
approach for improving project implementation in the DMCs.
The approach includes capacity-building activities that
strengthen institutions and develop human resources, and
indirectly address governance issues. The seminars train
project directors, managers, and key executing agency
staff on the principles and techniques for managing
project implementation, including familiarizing them with
ADB's guidelines, practices, and policies pertaining to
procurement, recruitment of consultants, disbursements,
anticorruption, and associated matters.

Formal evaluation and informal feedback from the
seminars indicate that the training has succeeded in
strengthening skills and raising the level of understanding of46 ANNUAL REPORT 2000

eee eee eee ee ee ey

ADB's requirements related to implementing and administering
projects. The structure and content are continuously reviewed
to meet new demands facing ADB-financed projects, and the
changing environment in which they are implemented. For
example, with the emphasis on reducing poverty, seminars
now include greater participation of local governments.

Business opportunities seminars: Thirty-six seminars
on business opportunities were held in 2000 in Australia,
Belgium, Canada, PRC, Denmark, Finland, France, Germany,
ndonesia, Japan, Malaysia, Netherlands, New Zealand,
Norway, Singapore, Spain, Sweden, United Kingdom, and
United States. Participants were provided with an overview
of business opportunities under ADB-financed loans and
echnical assistance, given advice on preparing bids and
proposals compliant with ADB guidelines, and informed of
he procedures for evaluating bids and ranking consulting
proposals. The seminars were directed at consultants,
suppliers, contractors, and business leaders interested in
pursuing consulting contracts and projects financed by ADB.
Overall, there were more than 1,945 participants in the
presentations, discussions, and one-on-one consultations.
n addition, four seminars, with an average attendance of
70 at each, were held at ADB headquarters for visiting
missions from Australia, Canada, Italy, and United States.
Companies previously unfamiliar with ADB learned about
uture business opportunities, while firms that had worked
on ADB-financed projects and technical assistance used the
seminars to inform new employees about ADB practices. ADB
also held two seminars on the Development of Domestic
Consultants in Thailand and Viet Nam.

 

Private sector operations portfolio

ADB's private sector portfolio at the end of 2000 was
$1.2 billion, an increase of 9.7 percent from $1.1 billion in
1999. The increase of $109 million was primarily because
of new approvals of $234.2 million and loan repayments.
Of the total private sector portfolio in 2000, 64 percent were
in loans amounting to $791.3 million and 36 percent or
$451.0 million were in equity investments.

Since ADB's first private sector investment in 1983,
cumulative approvals have totaled $1.9 billion covering
134 projects and involving some $755.8 million of
complementary financing loans. ADB's involvement also
mobilized $16.1 billion in additional financing, leveraging
ADB investments at a ratio of 8.4 times. Cumulative
disbursements rose by $83.6 million to reach $1.3 billion
at the end of 2000. Of these approvals, $553.9 million, or
29.0 percent have been repaid and divested.

ADB's private sector operations continued to focus on
the infrastructure and financial/capital markets sectors.
In 2000, two private sector projects were approved for
the power sector, one in tollroads, and another in a water
treatment plant. Infrastructure projects in the DMCs
account for 47.5 percent ($590.1 million) of the private
sector portfolio. Approvals made to the financial sector
included six projects in investment funds and one in an
export finance guarantee agency.

At the end of 2000, 16.9 percent of the private sector
portfolio or $210.7 million were in pioneering financial
institutions, which develop and strengthen capital and
financial markets. Another 20 percent or $246.3 million of
the private sector portfolio were investments in funds and
fund management companies that provide both equity and/
or debt to infrastructure projects, small and medium
enterprises, and financial institutions in DMCs. Such investments allow ADB to leverage its own available financial
and staffing resources to support private investment.

The remaining 15.7 percent ($195.2 million) of the
private sector portfolio is in agriculture and manufacturing
industries. Most of these investments took place in the
mid-1980s when ADB supported several DMC governments
who encouraged the private sector to invest in large
agricultural and industrial ventures.

Following ADB's proactive private sector approvals in
2000, projects under administration, net of repayments,
cancellations, and divestments have increased by 9 projects
in 1999 to 100 companies. Of these, 82 are country-specific
in 13 DMCs, and 18 are in regional financial entities and
funds. As for operations, 63 companies have demonstrated strong financial performance, 10 were in various
stages of implementation, and 27 were underperforming.
ADB continued its vigilance in risk management and in
helping rehabilitate or restructure these impaired
investments.

Portfolio Distribution,? 2000

Noe]

 

NOt
CTT ee UT Cel

Infrastructure 19 590.1 475
Finance Institutions 29 210.7 16.9
Agriculture, Manufacturing,

and Other Industries 2 195.2 15.7
Investment Funds 35 246.3 19.9
Total 100 1,242.3 100.0

a At exchange rates as of 31 December 2000.Portfolio Distribution by Country, 2000
($ million)

0 50 100 150 200 250
°

Bangladesh |EEZZ)
China, People’s

Rep. of MLE

India [EF

Indonesia [ECS]
Nepal [EE%3
Pakistan [Es
Philippines [EZE}
Sri Lanka [EGR
Thailand [ELES
Viet Nam [EEK
Regional [EZZ%)
Other DMCs [12.2

 
  
  
 
 
 
 
  
 
  
 

Interest and other income earned on the private
sector portfolio in 2000 totaled $31 million, compared with
$29.0 million in 1999. Dividend income amounted to
$11.4 million (4.3 percent yield), an increase from $3.5 million
(1.3 percent yield) in 1999. Capital gains from equity divestments in 2000 amounted to $16.8 million, significantly
improved from $2.5 million in capital losses in 1999.

Provision for possible losses on impaired assets and
equity investment rose slightly from $137.5 million at the
end of 1999 to $140 million in 2000. This loss reserve is
20.6 percent of the total outstanding portfolio at the end of
2000, compared with 19.9 percent in 1999.

 

Performance evaluation
and development impact

The Operations Evaluation Office (OEO) supports ADB's vision
of a poverty-free region by pursuing excellence and
independence in evaluation. In addition to its traditional focus
on measuring the performance of completed projects,
programs, and technical assistance, OEO has intensified its
work on preparing in-depth studies of particular thematic
issues; evaluating the effectiveness of ADB’s operations,
practices, and procedures; providing real-time feedback on
ongoing operations; monitoring and reporting on actions taken
by ADB and its executing agencies in response to OEO recommendations; building evaluation capacity within and outside
ADB to enhance self-evaluation; and coordinating closely with
multilateral and bilateral agencies on evaluation methodology.

OEO focuses on more effective feedback and the use
of lessons learned by closely examining loan and technical
assistance proposals and project completion reports to help
improve the self-evaluation capabilities of operational

Operations 47

eee eee eee eee ee ee ee

departments and the reliability of project success ratings.
Training support for the Project Performance Management
System, logical frameworks, and performance indicators—
aimed at improving the design of new projects—and the
monitoring, management, and impact assessment of
ongoing projects have been expanded. OEO supports evaluation capacity building in selected DMCs. Through its followup action reports, OEO strives to mainstream evaluation
findings in ADB's policy- and decision-making processes
for Management and staff.

In 2000, OEO completed 40 reports, comprising
22 project and program performance audit reports,
3 technical assistance performance audit reports, 1 reevaluation study, 2 impact evaluation studies, 4 special evaluation
studies, 1 sector synthesis, 2 technical assistance completion
reports, the Twenty-Second Annual Review of Evaluation
Operations, Evaluation Highlights of 1999, Report on the
Results and Impacts of ADF Operations, Assessing Impact on
Development: Education Sector, and the revised Guidelines
for the Preparation of Project Performance Audit Reports for
public sector projects.

Project/program performance audit reports

About half of OEO’s efforts in 2000 were directed at project/
program performance audit reports: 21 project and sector
loans and 5 program loans were covered in 22 reports. This
year OEO changed the classification of projects/programs
into four categories rather than three as in previous years
(see box on page 48). Breakdown by DMC group or sector
reveals no clear pattern, with success rates of most projects/
programs clustering in the middle two categories.

Overall ratings show that 13 projects (50 percent) were
successful, including 2 (8 percent) rated highly successful;
10 projects/programs (38 percent) were assessed less than
successful; and 3 (12 percent) were unsuccessful. Of the
21 project/sector loans examined in 2000, 2 (10 percent) were
rated highly successful, 11 (52 percent) successful, 6 (28 percent) less than successful, and 2 (10 percent) unsuccessful. Of
the five program loans evaluated, four (80 percent) were less
than successful and one (20 percent) was unsuccessful.

Overall sector performance was mixed. Of the
13 projects evaluated successful or highly successful,
10 were equally distributed in the physical infrastructure
sectors (energy, and transport and communications) and
in the agriculture and social infrastructure sectors. One
transport project and one urban development project were
rated highly successful.

Of the 13 less than successful or unsuccessful
projects/programs, 6 were in the agriculture and social48 ANNUAL REPORT 2000

eee eee eee ee ee ey

infrastructure sectors, while 6 were physical infrastructure projects, of which 2 telecommunications projects
performed unsatisfactorily because of their weak rationale
and poor project preparation.

Of the 14 projects/programs in Groups A and B1 countries
(see box on page 43 for country classifications), 5 (36 percent)
were successful, 8 (57 percent) were less than successful, and
1 (7 percent) was unsuccessful. The evaluated projects/
programs from Group B2 countries recorded better results,
with 2 of 11 (18 percent) considered highly successful. The
one Group C project examined was rated successful.

 

Assessing Project P

The revised Guidelines for the Preparation of Project
Performance Audit Reports, approved in September 2000,
is a response to changes in ADB operations since 1992 and
to the common concerns of funding agencies that have
implications for operations evaluation. The new edition of
the Guidelines includes a substantial revision of the criteria
for rating project success, reflecting initiatives by the Evaluation Cooperation Group! to harmonize evaluation practices
and standards. The new scheme is also broadly consistent
with the principles of the Development Assistance
Committee of the Organisation for Economic Co-operation
and Development. Project/program performance audit
reports will continue to be prepared after projects/programs
have been in operation for sufficient time to permit a
reasonable estimate of future achievements—usually at least
three years of operational history—and provided a project/
program completion report has been circulated to the Board.

A key feature of the new Guidelines is the use of a
four-category rating system instead of the three overall
assessment categories of generally successful, partly
successful, and unsuccessful. The objectives of revising the
Guidelines were to prepare a scheme that is consistent with
those of the other members of the Evaluation Cooperation
Group, in part to allow valid comparison of results; and to
be more transparent in the rating, in particular of projects
classified as partly successful.2 The overall performance
rating is the sum of weighted ratings calculated from
assessment rating values multiplied by the weight
assigned to the five key performance criteria of relevance,
efficacy, efficiency, sustainability, and institutional
development and other impacts. The overall rating is
briefly described as follows.

Reevaluation study

Reevaluation of the Health and Family Planning Services
Project in Bangladesh, done at the request of ADB's Board
of Directors, confirmed the partly successful rating in the
project performance audit report. The study showed that
the objectives at appraisal were largely met and that the
Project helped increase access to better health services
among rural communities, especially for women and
children. On the other hand, the study also revealed that
the Project experienced lower than anticipated impact and

* Highly successful: The weighted average is
greater than 2.5, and none of the five performance criteria
has a score of less than 2. This rating is given to projects
with achievements exceeding expectations and having a
very high probability that the purpose and goals will be
achieved sustainably and efficiently over the project life,
that the project has strong relevance to the DMC’s and ADB's
objectives, and that there are no significant unintended
negative impacts.

* Successful: The weighted average is from 1.6 to
2.5 with none of the five criteria having a score of less
than 1. While the degree of achievement is insufficient for,
or some negative results have occurred that prevent a highly
successful rating, there is no major shortfall, and the
expected purpose and goals will be mostly achieved
sustainably over most of the expected economic life. The
project is relevant to the DMC’s and ADB’s objectives, its
implementation and operations are efficient, and any
negative impacts are small relative to the gains.

* Less than successful: The weighted average is
from 0.6 to 1.5 and the number of criteria receiving a rating
of less than 1 does not exceed two. While the evaluation
anticipates a significant shortfall in achieving the purpose
and goals, and may consider full sustainability unlikely, it
expects that some components will achieve major benefits
(e.g., equivalent to at least half the level originally expected).

* Unsuccessful: The weighted average is less than
0.6. The evaluation considers the project as a technical and
economic failure in the sense that it expects the facilities
to operate at a low level of installed capacity, if at all, or
with high cost requiring a large subsidy. There may be many
negative impacts, and efficiency is low.

1 Established in 1996, the Evaluation Cooperation Group works to strengthen cooperation among evaluators and harmonize evaluation methodology in
its member institutions: African Development Bank, Asian Development Bank, European Bank for Reconstruction and Development, European Investment

Bank, Inter-American Development Bank, and World Bank Group.

2 Some projects rated at the higher end of partly successful under the old guidelines would move to the successful category. Projects formerly rated at
the lower end of generally successful would now be in the successful category, while those at the higher end would now be highly successful.low sustainability of some benefits because of design
deficiencies such as the absence of a training component,
lack of adequate information and database, and limited
consultations with stakeholders. Sectorwide issues that were
systemic in nature also constrained project performance,
such as lack of staff, inadequate budgetary allocation for
operation and maintenance, weak management, and the
absence of an effective monitoring and information system.

Technical assistance performance
audit reports

In line with OEO's initiative to assess ADB's operations by
evaluating technical assistance clusters, three technical
assistance performance audit reports were prepared in 2000.
Of the 11 technical assistance activities reviewed, 2 (18 percent) were rated highly successful, 7 (64 percent) were
successful, and 2 (18 percent) were less than successful.

In Mongolia, two technical assistance grants supported
institutional capacity building in the Ministry of Nature and
Environment and national environmental policy formulation, particularly in environmental impact assessment. The
technical assistance on strengthening environmental
procedures was successful. The other, on strengthening the
environmental management capability of the Ministry,
was evaluated to be less than successful. No follow-up
was provided for either activity, and the gains achieved
may not be sustained.

The study on road safety reviewed advisory technical
assistance activities in the People’s Republic of China (PRC)
and India, plus a regional technical assistance. The study
concluded that road safety needs to be accorded higher
priority. The DMCs must reduce and prevent accidents by
instituting measures such as safety education and audits.
The report urges ADB to encourage regional and local
activities on road safety in all its DMCs. All three technical
assistance grants achieved their intended objectives; the
one in the PRC and the regional technical assistance were
rated highly successful.

Six institutional strengthening and organizational
reform technical assistance activities in Bangladesh—aimed
at ensuring Bangladesh Railway's financial viability and
responsiveness to market demands—were evaluated. Three
important lessons emerged: (i) prior to and during implementation, demonstrated client ownership is necessary;
(ii) regular and periodic steering and management committee meetings are important means to address advisory and
implementation problems; and (iii) organizational reformoriented technical assistance should require that operationalizing and institutionalizing all new measures and

Operations 49

eee eee eee eee ee ee ee

Project/Program Performance
Classification by Country Group, 2000
(number)

0 1 2 3 4 5

Group A
Group B1
Group B2

Group C

|) Unsuccessful

MM Less than Successful
Ml Successful

Tl Highly Successful

For classification of DMC groups, see box on page 43.

other instruments of change be made a specific objective,
to ensure overall sustainability. Five technical assistance
activities were rated successful, and one was less than
successful.

Impact evaluation and special
evaluation studies

The impact evaluation study on the roads subsector of Nepal
revealed that ADB assistance was particularly effective in
improving transport efficiency and accessibility—the main
objective—while contributing to national integration. An
important point from the study is that, in preparing hill

Project/Program Performance
Classification by Sector, 2000
(number)

Agriculture and
Natural Resources
Social Infrastructure

Energy, Industry and
Nonfuel Minerals

Transport and
Communications

Finance
Multisector/Others

™®) Unsuccessful

I Less than Successful
Successful

HB Highly Successful50 ANNUAL REPORT 2000

road projects, detailed evaluation of the productive and
social sectors in the road catchments is needed to
determine the conditions under which the road work will
stimulate an appropriate level of change. Where
necessary, specific complementary nonroad development
efforts need to be incorporated, either as part of the
project or linked to it, to ensure sufficient benefits.

An impact evaluation study assessed the impacts of
rural credit assistance at the levels of households,
participating financial institutions, and executing agencies
in seven DMCs, It revealed that ADB assistance improved
productivity, technology, and ultimately farm incomes, and
enhanced the quality of the loan portfolios of financial
institutions. Project impacts, however, were less evident in
terms of redistributing income, reducing poverty, and
developing a sound rural financial system. Notwithstanding
the generally positive impact of rural credit assistance on
DMCs, random cases of unfavorable impacts were noted,
such as financial losses by an executing agency from foreign
exchange fluctuations, difficulties for an executing agency
as a result of conditionalities that pushed it beyond its
mandate, and the excessive tapping of groundwater by financing shallow tubewells.
There were five key lessons: (i) a
more focused and participatory
approach is needed for
proper targeting of the poor;
(ii) rural credit projects need
to help develop sound rural
financial systems that cater
primarily to the poor; (iii) rural
credit projects should be designed,
taking into consideration the capacity and
mandate of financial institutions or executing agencies to avoid high administrative
costs and implementation difficulties;
(iv) technical assistance has been an
appropriate and useful mechanism for
capacity building; and (v) a mechanism
for foreign exchange mitigation is
needed.

A special evaluation study examined the impacts of ADB's Involuntary
Resettlement Policy. The study found the
policy framework comprehensive and largely
relevant in providing fair treatment to people
affected by ADB-financed projects. It showed that
the Policy has made considerable gains in achieving
its development objectives, enhancing payment of
compensation for lost assets, providing improved

 

housing and infrastructure, and restoring livelihood for
resettled families. Likewise, it found new awareness in
dealing with vulnerable groups, particularly the poor and
the landless. On the other hand, the study revealed that
both ADB and the executing agencies were weak in
supervising and monitoring resettlement activities. DMCs
faced several constraints in implementing the Policy,
including lack of a comprehensive national legal framework
that matches the Policy, weak institutional capacity in most
DMCs for resettlement activities, poor supervision and
implementation of resettlement activities, insufficient local
financial resources to carry out the planned resettlement
activities, weak or inadequate initial social analysis during
project preparation, and lack of commitment for resettlement activities on the part of many DMCs. To alleviate these
constraints, the study recommends streamlining implementation of the Policy, adopting appropriate national policies,
providing adequate ADB financing for
resettlement, strengthening supervision
and monitoring of project resettlement,
strengthening institutional capacities of
both ADB and its DMCs, and improving
initial social assessment.

A special study reassessed ADB's.
role in and support for agriculture and
natural resource research. It revealed
that technologies generated from
ADB-funded research projects have
contributed substantially to meeting
ADB's policy agenda in agriculture and

natural resource research and improving farmers’ incomes, particularly poor
farmers in less favorable environments.
Overall, the study showed that investments in such research reap high
yields, score high on reducing poverty,
and need to be sustained to meet the
challenges ahead of feeding Asia's
rapidly growing population. While
ADB’s present research policy remains
relevant and consistent with its primary
goal of reducing poverty, refinements are
needed to sharpen its focus on generating appropriate technologies that will
promote sustainable farming systems for
poor farmers, sustain management of agriculture
and natural resources, enhance agricultural productivity,
strengthen the capacity of national agricultural research
systems, and promote public policy and socioeconomic
research. The study recommends that ADB continue to supportcutting-edge research by international agricultural research
centers and national agricultural research systems to
strengthen their capabilities, modify the technical assistance
funding modality, strengthen supervision and monitoring
of agriculture and natural resource research projects and
activities, emphasize research for poor farmers in less
favorable environments, and promote intensive policy
dialogue with DMC governments to ensure that adequate
attention and resources are provided to national agricultural
research systems.
The special study on participatory development
processes reviewed the participation of project stakeholders
with the aim of improving project performance, ensuring
that beneficiaries more fully benefit from projects, and
reducing poverty. The study revealed that participatory
development processes are necessary to the
performance and sustainability of most
agriculture and natural resources an
social infrastructure projects, where
disadvantaged and poor people can
directly benefit. It found that commitment
and ownership by stakeholders are less
intense at the project identification and
preparation stages because of pressures
in project processing and limited opportunities of key stakeholders to partici- ~ \
pate. The study found the selection of ©
stakeholders to be rarely transparent at :
the levels of local government, nongovernment organizations, and primary
stakeholders. Likewise, participatory
processes are constrained by limited
resources available, including time,
expertise, funds, and capacities of
stakeholders. Three key lessons
include the need for ADB to
(i) promote governance to facilitate
the adoption and application of
participatory pro-poor policies, (ii) prepare operational
guidelines on participatory development and institutional analysis, and (iii) improve internal learning
processes for ADB staff to gain exposure to participatory development methodologies and practices.
The special study on sustainability of policy
reforms through advisory technical assistance (ADTA)
evaluated 30 technical assistance projects in the power
and water subsectors across five DMCs. It concluded that
ADTAs have achieved immediate outputs in terms of
specific tasks (such as reports, training, or draft
legislation), but their contribution to a sustainable

 

 
 
  
 
  

 
 
   
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
    
 
 
 
 
 
  
  
 
  
   
 

Operations 51

eee eee eee eee ee ee ee

policy reform process remains generally below potential. If
ADTAs are to become strategic instruments in the reform
process, they need to provide more than technical solutions
to policy issues. Four key areas to enhance the effectiveness and sustainability of policy reforms through ADTAs
were identified: (i) policy reform needs to be treated as a
dynamic process within a given sector, and not a one-off
policy change or a set of fixed institutional changes;
(ii) ownership is the key to success and sustainability; (iii) the
effectiveness of future ADTAs depends largely on the ability
of ADB to allocate the required resources; and (iv) greater
accountability for results from ADTAs needs to be addressed
at multiple levels. The central message of the study is to
enhance the effectiveness of ADTAs by building greater
ownership and participation, the crucial first step toward
sustainable policy reforms.

Strengthening the evaluation
capability of DMCs

In 2000, OEO completed its ongoing assistance to
develop project performance management in
Nepal, and administered two new advisory
technical assistance grants for strengthening project performance management
in the People’s Republic of China (PRC)
and the Philippines. The technical
assistance for capacity building in
project performance management in
the PRC assessed the training needs
within the newly established Key Project
Inspectors Office of the State Development
Planning Commission. The technical assistance for institutionalizing a resultsoriented monitoring and evaluation
system within the Government of the
Philippines pilot tested and installed draft
results-oriented monitoring and
evaluation systems and software.
Also in 2000, two technical
assistance completion reports were
prepared. One, for strengthening
evaluation capacity in Thailand, highlighted the value of executing agency and
government commitment to technical assistance
success. The other, for special studies on selected
operational issues, revealed the increasing
recognition and advantage of impact and special
evaluation studies on thematic issues to draw out lessons
learned, provide deeper insights, and disseminate feedback.Regional and
Country Highlightshe Asian Development Bank (ADB) engages in activities aimed at reducing poverty in developing Asia and the

Pacific through pro-poor sustainable economic growth, social development, and good governance. These activities

are discussed in this chapter in the context of each member's economic performance, domestic policies, and

ADB's operational strategies. Developing member countries (DMCs) and economies are grouped by region as in
the case of the People’s Republic of China (PRC); the Central Asian republics’ (CARs), Azerbaijan, and Mongolia; Southeast
Asia;? South Asia;? and the Pacific,* or by economic growth, as in the case of the newly industrialized economies (NIEs)
of Hong Kong, China; Republic of Korea; Singapore; and Taipei,China.

Developing Asia and the Pacific

The annual growth rate of gross domestic product (GDP)
for all of developing Asia and the Pacific taken together
increased from 6.3 percent in 1999 to 7.2 percent in 2000,
with growth in the PRC and the NIEs continuing to be the
most rapid in the region.

Strong export growth, positive external balances, and
revived domestic demand characterized the region's
economic performance. However, the rise in international
oil prices in 2000 affected India’s GDP growth, mainly
because it is the most heavily oil-dependent economy in
the region. The volatility in currency and equity markets in
2000 had little impact on the economic performance of the
rest of developing Asia and the Pacific, mainly because of
minimum pressure on the balance of payments in the crisisaffected countries and NIEs. Flexible exchange rates in most
countries, low levels of short-term debt, and strong reserve
positions helped the region as a whole to maintain
macroeconomic stability.

Although GDP growth accelerated in 2000, the equity
markets in most of the major economies of developing Asia
did not perform well, mainly because of their large technology capitalizations. The currencies of many of these
countries weakened in 2000 because of higher oil prices,
rising interest rates, and political uncertainties in Indonesia;
Philippines; Taipei,China; and Thailand.

Soft equity market performance and weakening
domestic currencies notwithstanding, aggregate demand
and consumer confidence remained at high levels, on
average, suggesting that the negative wealth effect resulting from the decline in stock prices in developing Asia was
not as significant as historically experienced in the United

States (US) (except for the NIEs).° Consumption levels thus
returned to their precrisis levels in most of the crisis-affected
countries, while investment spending continued to slacken
considerably. Weak credit growth and low rates of capacity
utilization characterized this softness in investment.
Inflation slowed to 1.5 percent in 2000 from 2.5 percent
in 1999. Overall, inflation was not a concern in the region
and monetary policy remained accommodative, partly in
an effort to stimulate credit growth, which in most countries
remained below precrisis levels.
As for the external account, exports continued to
expand in the region, recording a growth rate of 19.9 percent in 2000. Electrical and electronic products were the
major sources of growth in exports, as the boom in
information and communication technology (ICT) continued worldwide. Although net exports contributed positively
to growth in 2000 in most countries, the size of this contribution diminished relative to recent years. From a peak
contribution of around 7 percent of total growth in 1998,
net exports contributed an average of only 2 percent of total
growth in the region in 2000, suggesting that while exports
grew strongly, imports on average grew more rapidly. The
recovery in imports relative to previous years resulted from
a combination of restocking of inventories of intermediate
inputs, rising demand for imported consumer goods as
domestic demand strengthened, and an increase in oil
prices. As a result, current account surpluses in
2000 narrowed for the region as a whole. In 2000, market
participants perceived the crisis-affected countries to have
slowed implementation of needed structural reforms, thus
leading to a downturn in investor confidence. This,
combined with domestic equity markets declining in
tandem with the US stock markets, led to a net private capital

 

1 The Central Asian republics include Kazakhstan, Kyrgyz Republic, Tajikistan, Turkmenistan, and Uzbekistan
2 Southeast Asia includes Cambodia, Indonesia, Lao People's Democratic Republic, Malaysia, Myanmar, Philippines, Thailand, and Viet Nam.
3 South Asia includes Afghanistan, Bangladesh, Bhutan, India, Maldives, Nepal, Pakistan, and Sri Lanka. ADB has not had operations in Afghanistan

since 1980.

4 The Pacific includes Cook Islands, Fiji Islands, Kiribati, Marshall Islands, Federated States of Micronesia, Nauru, Papua New Guinea, Samoa,

Solomon Islands, Tonga, Tuvalu, and Vanuatu.

5 The wealth effect occurs when the prices of assets held by households (e.g., houses or stock market shares) increase, making consumers feel
wealthier and thus inclined to spend more. When the prices of these assets fall, a negative wealth effect occurs, making consumers inclined

to spend less.54 ANNUAL REPORT 2000

Poeeceseseseereeesreeesreercecee eee eee eeeneee®

Economic Indicators of ADB's Developing Member Countries and Rest of Developing World

DMCs?

C1): Pd) a L)S)

Necro suates i teicchn

 

GDP Growth Rate (%) 0.2 6.3 7.2 22
Inflation Rate (%) 8.9 25 1.5 10.2
Merchandise Exports

Growth Rate (%) (5.9) 69 19.9 (4.1)
Merchandise Imports

Growth Rate (%) (17.2) 89 24.6 49
External Debt Outstanding

($ billion) 848.9 840.0 748.6
Debt-Service Ratio® 13.4 15.8 51.3

... Data not available.
() Negative.
a Developing member countries.

Nite eC M RCN aU ce oc

1999 2000 1998 1999 2000 1998 1999 2000
03 43 31 2.2 34 20 13 314
93 89 91 11.8 12.7 18.7 206 188
5.1 17.9 (13.7) 7.2 25.6

(6.0) 13.9 (0.9) 07 9.0
764.5 774.8 299.7 303.8 301.3 175.7 180.4 189.2
59.7 50.5 21.8 20.7 17.5 164 19.6 17.8

b Includes Antigua and Barbuda, Argentina, The Bahamas, Barbados, Belize, Bolivia, Brazil, Chile, Colombia, Costa Rica, Dominica, Dominican Republic, Ecuador, El Salvador,
Grenada, Guatemala, Guyana, Haiti, Honduras, Jamaica, Mexico, Netherlands Antilles, Nicaragua, Panama, Paraguay, Peru, St. Kitts and Nevis, St. Lucia, St. Vincent and the

Grenadines, Suriname, Trinidad and Tobago, Uruguay, and Venezuela.

c Includes Albania, Belarus, Bosnia and Herzegovina, Bulgaria, Croatia, Czech Republic, Estonia, Hungary, Latvia, Lithuania, Macedonia, Moldova, Poland, Romania, Slovak

Republic, Slovenia, Ukraine, and Federal Republic of Yugoslavia.
d Preliminary estimates from country sources.
e As percentage of exports of goods and services.

Sources: International Monetary Fund, World Economic Outlook, October 2000 (http://www.imf.org); and ADB data file.

outflow of $3.8 billion in 2000 from the five crisis-affected
countries (see table above).

Because of strong reserve positions and low short-term
debt-to-GDP ratios, public debt and external liabilities were
not a major concern in the region in 2000. Short-term
nominal interest rates across the region remained below
precrisis average levels, except for Indonesia. Central banks
in the region kept short-term interest rates low to encourage
financial sector reforms and to bolster domestic demand to
sustain growth.

The major exports from developing Asia to the US are
manufactured goods, a large portion of which are ICT and
electronics-related products. With the US now accounting
for half of global expenditure on ICT, exports from the major
countries of Southeast Asia (with the exception of Indonesia)
and the NIEs are vulnerable to a slowdown in the global
economy as a whole. In addition to a slowdown in domestic
GDP growth resulting in a slackening in foreign trade,
indirect linkages through consumption and investment may
also transmit a global slowdown to the domestic economy
via capital outflows and rising interest rates.

Intraregional trade accounts for the largest external
dependency in most countries in developing Asia. There is

thus a potential virtuous circle of rapid growth in
intraregional trade, leading to increased domestic demand
and higher real incomes and to even more rapid growth in
intraregional trade. However, for this virtuous circle to
prevail in the region, the external environment will have
to remain favorable. Continued global GDP growth and
expansion in international trade volumes, combined with
firmness in the prices of oil and other commodities, are
crucial to maintaining export growth momentum. A major
concern is thus a correction in global economic growth.

Sustainable growth in the region also depends on
individual countries completing corporate and financial
sector reforms necessary for reducing vulnerability to
downturns in the global economy.

The global economy®

In 2000, the global economy continued to recover from the
1997-1998 slowdown caused by the Asian financial crisis,
growing by 4.8 percent, which is the best growth performance in 13 years. The biggest boost to global growth from
1998 to 2000 came from the US, where GDP growth in 2000

6 Data for the global economy discussion are derived from International Monetary Fund, World Economic Outlook, October 2000 (http://www. imf.org);

official sources; and ADB data files.was 5.0 percent. Economic growth was also vigorous in
developing Asia, the Euroarea,’ Latin America, and the
transitional economies of Russia and Central and Eastern
Europe. Growth in Russia accelerated in 2000 because of
increases in the international prices of oil and gas.

However, the sustainability of global economic growth
became uncertain in the second half of 2000. Prospects of
further interest rate hikes and a slower pace of economic
growth in the US, then in its ninth year of expansion,
dominated concerns in global financial markets and among
policymakers. The technology-heavy Nasdaq index in the
US fell by roughly 33 percent on expectations that a
slowdown in the US economy would be led by a softening
of growth in the technology sector. Given the high
correlation of Asian equity markets with the Nasdaq index
and the high degree of dependence of most major economies
in developing Asia on electronic exports to the US, domestic
currency and stock markets plunged across the region. The
euro fell to a record low, causing the Group of 7 countries
(Canada, France, Germany, Italy, Japan, United Kingdom,
and US) and the European Central Bank to intervene in
currency and money markets to arrest a further decline in
its value. Inflationary expectations for 2001 and euro-related
concerns led to a tightening of monetary policy by major
industrial economies in 2000.

Amid improving domestic demand in Asia, Europe, and
Latin America and dwindling winter oil inventories in the US,
oil prices increased, reaching $36 per barrel by November 2000,
compared with $25 per barrel in December 1999, and leading
to further concerns about a global economic downturn.

Consumer price inflation remained generally low in
both developed and developing economies as a result of
stronger fiscal discipline and monetary restraint in many
countries. While oil prices rose by over 70 percent, nonfuel
prices remained at levels similar to those in 1999, which
helped keep inflation subdued in product markets. However,
asset prices displayed considerable volatility in most
industrial economies.

World trade volume rose by over 12 percent in 2000,
more than double the growth rate recorded in 1999, with
the developing countries affected by the 1997 global financial
crisis (Latin America and developing Asia) remaining at the
forefront in world trade volume growth.

The majority of global capital flows in 2000 were
characterized by a net inflow to the US, which attracted

 

Regional and Country Highlights 55

eee eee eee eee ee ee

Net Private Capital Flows to Developing Asia
($ billion)

 

1997 1998 1999 2000
Asia and Pacific 73.3, (1.1) 313 49.4
Five Most Affected
Asian Economies* 4.9 (38.7) (5.2) (3.8)
Other Asian
Economies 68.4 37.6 365 53.2
Equity Investment 57.9 61.0 72.8 64.8
Foreign Direct
Investment 52.0 55.8 53.7 49.9
Portfolio Investment 5.8 5.2 191 14.9
Private Credit Flows 15.4 (62.1) (41.5) (15.3)
Total Net Private Flows 73.3 (1.1) 31.3 49.4
() Negative.

Note: Total may not add because of rounding.
a Indonesia, Republic of Korea, Malaysia, Philippines, and Thailand.

Source: The Institute of International Finance, Inc., Capital Flows to Emerging Market
Economies, 24 January 2001 (http://www.iif.org).

Major Interest Rates

   
   
 
   
     
 

 

(percent)
1995 1996 1997 1998 1999 2000
e
8
10-Year US Treasury Notes
6
Six-Month LIBOR
4
2
10-Year Japanese
Government Bonds
0 | |
significant direct and portfolio investment. These inflows—
net of outflows—financed a US current account deficit of
4.4 percent of GDP in 2000. Much of the net capital outflow

from the European Union® was used to finance foreign
mergers and acquisitions and issuance of liabilities
internationally by regional banks.

The overall growth in the industrial countries
notwithstanding, there was considerable variation in
economic performance among individual countries in this

grouping.

7 The Euroarea includes the 11 countries that adopted the euro as their single currency on | January 1999 (Austria, Belgium, Finland, France,
Germany, Ireland, Italy, Luxembourg, Netherlands, Portugal, and Spain) plus Greece, which adopted the euro on | January 2001.

8 The European Union, also known as the European Community, refers to Austria, Belgium, Denmark, Finland, France, Germany, Greece, Ireland,
Italy, Luxembourg, Netherlands, Portugal, Spain, Sweden, and United Kingdom.56 ANNUAL REPORT 2000

Poeeceseseseereeesreeesreercecee eee eee eeeneee®

GDP growth in Japan in 2000 was 1.7 percent, largely
ed by exports and information technology-related
consumption and investment.

The US GDP growth rate rose to 5.0 percent in 2000
rom 4.2 percent in 1999, although consumer price inflation
remained at a moderate rate of 3.4 percent in 2000. Owing
to the downward adjustment in the price of technology
stocks, the strong wealth effect in the US during the past
ew years began to moderate in 2000, causing private
consumption growth to remain flat at 5.3 percent. As for
he external balance, consumption demand has been
increasingly met by imports, resulting in an increase in the
US current account deficit to 4.4 percent of GDP in 2000
rom 3.6 percent of GDP in 1999.

In 2000, the Euroarea gained momentum for the third
ime in the past decade. GDP growth was 3.4 percent,
compared with 2.6 percent in 1999. The Euroarea
benefited both from the boost given to exports by the weak
euro and increased domestic consumption and investment. Unemployment remained high at 9.0 percent in
2000, but was nevertheless lower than the 9.9 percent
recorded in 1999. The European Central Bank (ECB) raised
interest rates in August and October, but inflation
remained above ECB’s medium-term target of 2 percent.
Large differentials in inflation rates remained among the
Euroarea member countries.

In sum, the major vulnerabilities of the global economy
are a slowdown in the US economy and external imbalances
in the industrial countries. As for the US, the concern is on
whether the previous strong productivity gains in computer
technology and increases in labor productivity across a wide
range of sectors that take advantage of computer technology
can be sustained. As for the industrial countries as a whole,
external imbalances continued to grow—notably the current
account deficit in the US. Any correction of significant
proportions in the US current account would negatively
impact manufactured exports from developing Asia. Further,
ifthe adjustment is large, the US dollar would weaken relative
to other currencies, further depressing the US demand for
exports from Asia and the Pacific.

 

Newly industrialized economies

The strong economic recovery in the NIEs, which has
occurred since 1999, accelerated in 2000. While growth in
the Republic of Korea slowed slightly to 8.8 percent in 2000
from its previous high rate of 10.9 percent, all other
economies saw significant increases in GDP growth. The
rapid recovery from the financial crisis of 1997 largely

Newly Industrialized Economies
GDP Growth Rates (percent)

1996 1997 1998 1999 2000

15.0
Republic of Korea
10.0

Taipei,China
5.0

0.0

Hong Kong, China

65.0)

 

(10.0)

resulted from a high level of consumer confidence, buoyant
exports, and strengthened investor sentiment. Private
consumption was robust in most of these economies,
underpinned by increases in incomes. Gross fixed
investment strengthened as firms upgraded their ICT
facilities and expanded their capacities in infrastructure and
manufacturing. As domestic demand continued to expand,
inflation turned upward, but remained under control, with
consumer prices increasing by less than 1.1 percent in 2000
for the NIEs as a whole.

Exports continued to play a key role in the recovery,
spurred by external demand for electronic products and
semiconductors in particular. While surpluses in the current
account were maintained in all NIEs, the size of these surpluses
decreased in Hong Kong, China and the Republic of Korea.

With the exception of the Republic of Korea, ADB has
no operations in the NIEs.

Hong Kong, China

Economic performance

Economic growth: Hong Kong, China’s 1999 recovery
strengthened in 2000, as real GDP growth reached
10.5 percent in 2000, compared with 3.1 percent growth
in 1999 and a contraction of 5.3 percent in 1998. Buoyant
exports, spurred by a favorable global environment, fueled
growth in both private consumption expenditure and
domestic investment.

Domestic demand recorded solid growth in 2000, with
private consumption rising by 5.4 percent in real terms,
supported by improved real labor income and increased
employment. Overall investment spending expanded by
8.8 percent in real terms because of strong growth inexpenditure on machinery and equipment by the private
sector. The contraction in private expenditure on building
and construction moderated to 8.2 percent in real terms,
which was more than offset by a revival in expenditure on
machinery and equipment.

Employment: Labor market conditions improved in 2000,
as the sustained economic recovery further strengthened
demand for labor. With a seasonally adjusted unemployment
rate of 4.4 percent in the fourth quarter of 2000, nominal wages
and earnings rebounded to positive year-on-year growth by
the second quarter of 2000, compared with modest declines
in the first quarter of 2000 and for 1999 as a whole.

Inflation: Despite an upward trend in the world prices
of some commodities (especially fuel) the composite
consumer price index fell by 3.7 percent in 2000, mainly
because of cost and price adjustments resulting from a
stagnating property market and excess production capacity.
The continuing freeze in government fees and in some public
utility charges also contributed to the fall in price level.
Nevertheless, the rate of decline in consumer prices slowed
from 5.1 percent in the first quarter of 2000 to 4.5 percent
in the second quarter, and further to 2.8 and 2.2 percent in
the third and fourth quarters, respectively.

Fiscal balance: The overall fiscal balance unexpectedly
recorded a surplus of Hong Kong dollars (HK$) 10.0 billion
in FY2000 (ending 31 March), in contrast to a projected deficit
of HK$36.5 billion, thereby reducing the urgency of
implementing new revenue-raising measures. Therefore,
the Government's budget for FY2001 did not include major
initiatives to increase consumption or corporate taxes. The
unexpected surplus reflected not only low levels of
government spending but also strong revenue inflows
generated by investing the Government's fiscal reserves
within a buoyant stock market in 1999.

External sector: Total exports of goods surged by
17.1 percent in real terms in 2000, mainly reflecting a broadbased strengthening of import demand in major overseas
markets, and improved price competitiveness of domestic
exports, resulting from downward adjustments in prices and
production costs in the local economy. Total imports also grew
markedly by 18.1 percent in real terms in 2000 because of
significant reexport growth and an increase in retained imports.
For invisible trade, export of services remained robust, rising
by 14.3 percent in real terms in 2000, amid continued increases
in exports of trade-related services, offshore trading activities,
and inbound tourism. Import of services registered a relatively
moderate increase of 2.6 percent in real terms during the same
period. Despite a widening visible trade deficit, the current
account surplus in the first three quarters of 2000 was about
HK$68.6 billion, equivalent to 5.4 percent of GDP.

Regional and Country Highlights 57

eee eee eee eee ee ee

Domestic policies: Several policy measures for
improving the competitiveness of the banking subsector
were undertaken by the Hong Kong Monetary Authority.
The first phase of the interest rate deregulation for time
deposits with a maturity of less than seven days was
implemented in July 2000. The second phase is planned for
2001. A detailed study of the feasibility of establishing an
explicit deposit protection scheme in Hong Kong, China was
conducted in the first half of 2000; the purpose of the scheme
is to provide protection to small depositors, thereby
contributing to the stability of the financial system. The
Securities and Futures Bill, introduced into the legislature
in November 2000, will consolidate all existing relevant
legislation, and make the regulatory framework for the
securities and futures markets consistent with international standards and practices. Merger of the two stock
exchanges and three clearinghouses into a single holding
company—the Hong Kong Exchange and Clearing Limited—
was undertaken in 2000, which in the long run will facilitate
on-line trading.

The Mandatory Provident Fund (MPF) System was
launched on 1 December 2000 to provide retirement
protection for the workforce in Hong Kong, China. The MPF
System will help alleviate the financial burden of a rapidly
aging population on future generations. In addition,
accumulating a large pool of long-term saving will facilitate
developing the local capital market, particularly the bond
market.

 

Republic of Korea

Economic performance

Economic growth: The economy rebounded in 1999 and
2000 after a deep recession in 1998 in the wake of the Asian
financial crisis, with real GDP growth reaching 10.9 percent
in 1999 and 8.8 percent in 2000. The recovery was most
evident in manufacturing, which achieved nearly 20 percent growth each year in 1999-2000. The information and
communication technology-related manufacturing
subsector showed strong growth performance of more than
40 percent growth in 2000.

The economy began to slow in 2000; the quarterly
growth rate dropped from 4.1 percent in the second quarter
of 1999 to 1.2 percent in the second quarter of 2000, and
fell further in the fourth quarter of 2000. Growth in private
consumption also turned negative during the latter half of
2000. However, the slowdown was less evident in exports,
with the quarterly growth rate of export volume remaining58 ANNUAL REPORT 2000

Poeeceseseseereeesreeesreercecee eee eee eeeneee®

at about 5 percent in the third and fourth quarters of 2000,
similar to the year-ago levels. The continued steady
growth in export volume suggests that the recent overall
economic slowdown stemmed mainly from depressed
domestic demand.

Employment: The unemployment rate dropped to
below 4 percent in 2000 from 6.3 percent in 1999. Given
that the long-run average unemployment rate prior to the
crisis was about 2.5 percent, unemployment remained
relatively high. Two factors appear to have contributed to
this. First, structural changes in the labor market following
the 1997 crisis, such as greater flexibility in the labor market
and extended unemployment benefits, may have increased
the natural unemployment rate for the Republic of Korea.
Second, the recent slowdown in growth may have kept the
unemployment rate from falling further.

Inflation: The consumer price inflation rate, which was
as low as 0.8 percent in 1999, reached 2.3 percent in 2000.
The precrisis (1990-1997) average GDP growth rate was
about 7.3 percent, with the average inflation rate at around
4.5 percent.

Fiscal balance: In 2000, the consolidated central
government finance statistics recorded a surplus for the
first time since 1996. This improvement in fiscal
performance was achieved through a 23.7 percent
increase in total revenue and a 5.8 percent reduction in
expenditure and net lending. In particular, income, profit,
and collection of capital gains taxes registered growth of
40.3 percent, with corporate income tax revenues
increasing by more than 90.9 percent. The surge in
corporate income tax resulted from the economic
recovery, leading to an increase in corporate profits in
1999 and the first half of 2000. On the expenditure side,
cuts in transfer payments and net lending contributed
substantially to fiscal improvement. Total government
expenditure as a percentage of GDP decreased from
25 percent in 1999 to about 24 percent in 2000.

External sector: Exports continued to expand,
achieving a 21.1 percent rate of growth in 2000. Imports,
however, grew even faster at 36.3 percent. This resulted in
a decline in the current account surplus to 2.4 percent of
GDP from 6.0 percent of GDP in 1999. As rapid economic
growth and investor confidence were restored, the capital
account turned into surplus in 1999, further improving to
$11.5 billion in 2000. As a result, the Republic of Korea’s
foreign exchange reserves increased further from $74 billion
in 1999 to about $96 billion in 2000.

Overall, the performance of the external sector improved
in 1999 and 2000. Reflecting this improvement, the average
exchange rate of the won to the US dollar dropped from 1,399 in

1998 to 1,189 in 1999 and 1,121 in 2000. However, this
increased to 1,265 at the end of 2000 because of the slowdown
in growth, delayed structural reforms, and higher oil prices.

Domestic policies: The first phase of financial sector
restructuring began immediately following the crisis. The
second phase began in late 2000 and is expected to be
completed during the first quarter of 2001. Although the
first phase was largely successful, the Government
decided that more public money and greater efficiency
in using it were needed to carry out the second phase
successfully. As a result, the Korea Deposit Insurance
Corporation and the National Assembly agreed on
2 December 2000 to raise 40 trillion won in additional
public money to complete financial and corporate
restructuring. More than 100 trillion won of public money
had already been used for restructuring. Of the additional
public money, 4 trillion won has already been injected
into six commercial banks. Also, to increase the efficiency

Republic of Korea
Cumulative ADB Lending
(as of 31 December 2000)

 

Sector No. of Loans  $ Million %
Finance 22 4,710.0 74.3
Social Infrastructure 22 635.1 10.0
Transport and

Communications 11 459.5 73:
Energy 10 234.4 37
Agriculture and

Natural Resources 8 163.8 2.6
Industry and

Nonfuel Minerals 8 135.5 24
Total 81 6,338.3 100.0

 

Republic of Korea
Lending and Disbursements, 1996-2000
($ million)

0 3 6 1,500 3,000 4,500
2000
1999
1998
1997
1996

Ml Lending
I Disbursementsin the use of public money, the National Assembly
promulgated the Special Law on the Management of
Public Money on 20 December 2000.

In addition to capital injections, the Government has
established a financial holding company that will incorporate
four financially weak banks. The holding company started
operations during the first quarter of 2001. For the banks
that did not receive injections of public money, the
Government is encouraging mergers to increase the size of
the banks and to strengthen their competitiveness.

Corporate restructuring continued in 2000. Regulatory
changes aimed at improving corporate transparency and
governance structures were introduced, followed by actions
to resolve nonperforming loans. Chaebol (conglomerates)
restructuring was emphasized and included simplifying and
improving their financial structure by removing cross
guarantees between chaebol affiliates. This resulted in
improved transparency and accountability.

ADB operations

Project implementation: The Government did not withdraw the final tranche of the Financial Sector Program loan
($300 million). Accordingly, the technical assistance loan for
institutional strengthening of the financial sector is the only
loan being implemented. This loan was rated satisfactory
in terms of implementation and development objectives.

Singapore

Economic growth: Singapore's economy continued to
grow in 2000, expanding at 9.9 percent, compared with
5.9 percent in 1999. External demand remained the key
locomotive of growth, riding on strong global demand.
Domestic demand was also robust. Investment in information and communication technology (ICT) strengthened in
2000, causing growth of fixed capital formation to reach
5.9 percent in 2000. Private consumption expenditure rose
by 9.4 percent as consumer confidence returned as a result
of improved labor market conditions, recovery in property
prices, and reduction in previous high savings rates.
Consumer demand weathered the negative impacts of high
oil prices in the second half of 2000 and the negative wealth
effect resulting from a softer stock market. The sustained
growth in consumption spending tracked the upturn in the
credit cycle quite closely.

Employment: Overall employment creation increased
to its precrisis level, with gains occurring in both
manufacturing and services. The seasonally adjusted

Regional and Country Highlights 59

eee eee eee eee ee ee

unemployment rate continued to fall throughout 2000,
finishing at 2.8 percent, from its peak of 4.3 percent. Many
jobs were created as a result of the restructuring in
manufacturing, particularly the disk drive subsector.

Inflation: As productivity-enhancing machinery
investment peaked and wages rebounded from their
depressed levels during the crisis, unit labor costs began
to rise in 2000. The Government's aggressive drive to
deregulate the services sector (banking, stockbroking,
power, telecommunications, and media) had a disinflationary
impact in 2000. Rising oil prices were of some concern in
2000, but the relatively benign profile of trend inflation in
2000 led the Monetary Authority of Singapore (MAS) to
accommodate the shock from the oil price rise through
inflation. Prices of residential properties recovered, but those
of nonresidential properties remained sluggish. Consumer
price inflation rose to 1.3 percent in 2000, compared with
a flat growth in 1999.

Fiscal balance: Public consumption in 2000 grew by
13.7 percent—a rate higher than private consumption. On
a fiscal year basis (ending 31 March), the budget surplus
moderated to $$3.5 billion in FY2000. Revenues increased
because of the strong performance of the economy, but this
was more than offset by the increase in expenditures and
special transfers (such as top-ups to citizens’ Central
Provident Fund accounts and contributions to the Eldercare
Fund and Lifelong Learning Endowment Fund).

External sector: Exports, which suffered during the
crisis, grew by 20.3 percent in 2000, compared with
4.5 percent in 1999, while imports grew by 22.2 percent
in 2000, compared with 9.0 percent in 1999. As a result,
the current account surplus narrowed to 23.6 percent of
GDP in 2000 from 25.9 percent in 1999. Although exports
are growing strongly, imports are also recovering, reflecting a combination of restocking of inventories of intermediate inputs and increasingly strong demand for
consumer goods.

MAS adopted a broadly neutral stance with respect to
the exchange rate in 2000, acting only occasionally to
support the Singapore dollar when its value was weakened
by devaluation of other Asian currencies.

Domestic policies: Efforts to improve the business
environment and to divest government holdings in
companies moved forward in 2000. Sales of government
interests in transport companies (airline and metropolitan
rail) were initiated, while preparations to reduce state
interests in leading enterprises in other sectors progressed.
However, government holdings in private companies are
unlikely to be reduced markedly in the near term.
Restrictions on foreign investments are being relaxed, most60 ANNUAL REPORT 2000

Poeeceseseseereeesreeesreercecee eee eee eeeneee®

notably in communications, media, insurance, and banking,
to enable foreign companies to enter these areas. The
Government continues to invest selectively in priority areas
such as ICT infrastructure, biotechnology, and worker
training. This is meant to encourage the economy's
transition from a base for manufactured exports to a fully
networked, knowledge-intensive economy and a hub for
Asian finance, ICT, and transport.

Taipei,China

Economic performance

Economic growth: Taipei,China’s economic recovery in
1999 strengthened further in 2000. Real GDP growth
accelerated to 6.0 percent in 2000, compared with
5.4 percent in 1999. The major contributing factor was
the sharp increase in exports and export-driven private
investment, which has benefited from strong global
demand for semiconductors and telecommunicationsrelated products. Private investment increased by
13.9 percent, compared with a contraction of 0.7 percent
in 1999. Public sector investment shrank by 8.3 percent
as implementation of government projects was sluggish.
Total fixed investment grew by 7.8 percent, while private consumption increased by 5.6 percent, from the
5.4 percent achieved in 1999. Government consumption
contracted by 1.2 percent largely because of the reiningin of the fiscal deficit that ballooned following the earthquake of 1999. Led by the robust performance of the
high-technology sector, the industrial production index
rose by 7.7 percent, compared with 7.5 percent in 1999.
However, the output of traditional industries remained
low. Agriculture sector output fell by 1.3 percent because
of unfavorable weather. In the services sector, telecommunications was the main engine of growth, while the
contribution of the financial sector and government
services to growth remained weak.

Employment: The unemployment rate has risen
gradually in recent years from a low 1.4 percent in 1993,
passing 2.6 percent in 1996, to a record 2.9 percent in 1999.
Since then, unemployment has remained high, recording
3.0 percent at the end of 2000. The slowdown in the financial
sector, the downturn of construction and traditional
industries, and the influx of foreign workers were the main
reasons for the rising unemployment rate.

Inflation: Prices rose in 2000 as a result of higher prices
for oil and other commodities, and depreciation of the New
Taiwan dollar. Consumer price inflation was 1.3 percent, up
from 0.2 percent in 1999, while wholesale inflation reached
1.8 percent, from the 4.5 percent price deflation in 1999.
Import prices rose by 4.6 percent.

Fiscal balance: The budget deficit, which went from
3.4 percent of GDP in 1998 to 6.0 percent in 1999, fell to
4.7 percent in 2000 primarily because of cuts in government expenditure. In particular, government capital
expenditure shrank by 19.2 percent in 2000.

External sector: Export growth jumped from 10 percentin 1999 to 22 percent in 2000. Recovering Asian economies and surging global demand for ICT-related products
were the major driving forces. Import growth was also high
at 26.5 percent in 2000, compared with 6.2 percent in 1999.
Rapid growth in private investment contributed to increased
capital goods imports. Reflecting this, the trade surplus is
estimated at $13.6 billion in 2000.

Domestic policies: In 2000, the Government
restrained its expenditure to reduce the budget deficit.
Despite a more liberal monetary stance earlier in the year,
broad money (M2) growth slowed later in the year partly
because of an outflow of foreign capital, which was
triggered by the rise of the interest rates in the US and
the Euroarea countries. As a consequence, M2 growth
was 6.5 percent in 2000, lower than the 8.3 percent
achieved in 1999. Facing the economic slowdown, the
central bank lowered the rediscount rate at the end of
December to stimulate the economy.

The banking subsector has suffered from overcrowding and growing nonperforming loans (NPLs) in recent
years, with excessive competition and limited market
share dragging down bank profitability. Moreover, the
downturn in traditional industries, and the flagging real
estate and stock markets pushed up the aggregate NPL
ratio of financial institutions to 5.5 percent by the end of
2000. The NPL ratio of cooperative associations and credit
departments of farmers’ and fishermen’s associations was
particularly high, reaching 15.6 percent. The Government
has attempted to resolve the overcrowding problem and
improve the quality of bank assets by amending the
Banking Law to relax restrictions on bank investment
activities and raise the foreign ownership ceiling from
15 percent to 25 percent, and passing the Merger Act of
Financial Institutions to encourage mergers, even by
foreign financial institutions.Central Asian Republics, Azerbaijan,
and Mongolia

In 2000, the economies of the Central Asian republics (CARs),
Azerbaijan and Mongolia enjoyed a strong recovery, albeit
at differing paces, supported by a marked improvement in the
Russian economy and strengthening of international mineral
and commodity prices. Kazakhstan and Turkmenistan
experienced high GDP growth rates of 9.6 and 17.6 percent,
respectively in 2000, driven by large-scale oil and gas exports
to Russia, still the largest market for these countries’ exports.
By contrast, Uzbekistan’s growth slowed to 4.0 percent,
which was a little below the government target of
4.2 percent. The main reasons for this were contraction in
agriculture sector output and sluggishness in the industry
sector. For the subregion as a whole, average GDP growth
in 1999 was 4.7 percent, rising to about 8 percent in 2000.
The higher GDP growth for 2000 was achieved with an
inflation rate of 15.9 percent in 2000, nearly half its 1997
level. An important issue across the subregion is the narrow
growth base—concentrated in agriculture, and oil and gas—
which impedes broad-based employment creation and
diversification of exports. Labor markets thus remained
weak and unemployment rates high. Although inflation rates
fell in most of the CARs, they remained at high levels,
particularly in Tajikistan and Uzbekistan, at 24.0 and
24.9 percent, respectively. During 2000, inflation in the CARs
was mainly caused by high world energy prices, drought,
and excessive aggregate demand.

In 2000, the subregion continued to implement
macroeconomic stabilization and poverty reduction
measures. Stabilization measures included tight fiscal policy
and consolidation of money supply, and foreign exchange
and trade reforms. The fiscal reforms achieved mixed
results mainly because of the narrow tax base, weak tax
administration, and the need for new fiscal expenditures
for developing infrastructure and reducing poverty.

The progress thus far in strengthening the CARs’ financial
systems has been encouraging, particularly in the areas of
policy and institutional reforms. However, the financial sectors
remain weak points in their respective economies, particularly
with regard to public confidence in financial institutions, much
of which is attributed to outdated financial infrastructure. This
hampers resource mobilization and results in inefficient
allocation of resources. Diversifying the production base is
another issue prominent on the CARs’ respective policy
agendas, since sustained industrial growth and balance-ofpayments stability can only be achieved with a diversified
economic structure. A distinctively market-oriented economic
policy regime, which provides appropriate incentives to the

Regional and Country Highlights 61

eee eee eee eee ee ee

Central Asian Republics, Azerbaijan, and
Mongolia: GDP Growth Rates (percent)

1996 1997 1998 1999 2000
e ° e ® e
20.0 5

    
  

Republic
10.0 + :

0.0

(10.0) +
Turkmenistan
(20.0) ~
1996 1997 1998 1999 2000
° e ° ° @
20.0 5
10.0 - Azerbaijan

  
 
  

Mongolia

0.0

(10.0) 5

 

 

 

 

 

(20.0) ~

private sector, is crucial to sustained growth in the CAR
economies. This should include privatization of state-owned
enterprises as a means of providing impetus to the
emergence of a competitive private sector.

Kazakhstan

Economic performance

Economic growth: During the second half of 1999, the
economy began to recover from the recession induced by
soft international commodity markets and the 1998
economic crisis in Russia, with GDP increasing by 9.6 percent
in 2000, compared with 2.7 percent in 1999. Two external
factors contributed to this surge in growth: rising world
prices for oil and metals—Kazakhstan’s major exports—and
economic recovery in Russia. Industry sector output grew
by 14.6 percent in 2000, mainly because of sharp increases
in production of oil and metals. However, agriculture sector
output contracted in 2000, as grain production shrank
because of unfavorable weather.62 ANNUAL REPORT 2000

Poeeceseseseereeesreeesreercecee eee eee eeeneee®

Employment: Because economic growth in 2000 was
mainly driven by growth in the oil and metals subsectors,
employment did not improve significantly. While the official
unemployment rate for October 2000 was 3.8 percent,
slightly lower than 3.9 percent for December 1999, actual
unemployment was much higher because some workers
officially classified as employed were on mandatory, unpaid
leave, and many other unemployed people were not officially
registered as unemployed.

Inflation: Consumer price inflation in 2000 subsided
to 9.8 percent, much lower than the inflation rate of
17.8 percent in 1999. Increased productivity, an improved
fiscal position, and a stable national currency were the main
contributing factors. The tenge (T), which depreciated
sharply against the US dollar after the authorities floated
it in April 1999, remained relatively stable in 2000,
fluctuating within a range of T138-T145 to the US dollar.

Fiscal balance: The Government's fiscal position
continued to improve in 2000, helped by strong economic
growth, increased oil revenues, and strengthened tax collection
and public expenditure management. For the first year since
independence, Kazakhstan recorded a state budget surplus,
albeit at a relatively low level of 0.1 percent of GDP. To reduce
volatility in its budgetary revenues, which are highly dependent
on oil exports, the Government will establish an offshore state
oil fund for maintaining stable resource flows to the budget
and preserving national wealth generated from oil.

External sector: The country’s balance of payments
improved in 2000, achieving a surplus of 3.8 percent of GDP,
compared with a deficit of 1.1 percent of GDP in 1999.
Foreign direct investment (FDI) remained at $1.6 billion in
2000. Kazakhstan issued its fourth Eurobond, for a total of
$350 million in April 2000. Strong export growth, renewed
inflows of FDI, and issuance of the Eurobond helped
strengthen the country’s international reserve position, with
gross international reserves rising to $2.1 billion (equivalent
to 5.0 months of imports) by the end of 2000. External public
debt decreased from $4.1 billion (33.4 percent of GDP) at
the end of 1999 to $3.8 billion (32.5 percent of GDP) at the
end of 2000, mainly because of debt prepayment to the
International Monetary Fund.

Domestic policies: Maintaining stability, fostering
growth, implementing structural reforms, and reducing
poverty were the major issues on the Government's policy
agenda in 2000. The Government maintained a tight fiscal
policy, emphasizing improved revenue collection and better
expenditure management. Discussions began in Parliament
on a new tax code.

In 2000, the central bank pursued an expansive
monetary policy for stimulating growth. It reduced the

refinancing rate to 14 percent in 2000 from 18 percent in
1999, and lowered the required reserve ratio for commercial
banks from 10 percent to 8 percent on demand and
short-term time deposits. Reforms for strengthening the
financial sector were also undertaken in 2000: including
amending the Law on Banks and Banking to bring the
country’s financial system more in line with international
banking standards.

As for trade policy, the Government converted all
specific tariffs into ad valorem equivalents (except for tariffs
on alcohol) to strengthen duty collections. The crude oil export
quota was abolished. The Government also submitted a fresh
application for membership to the World Trade Organization.

ADB operations

Operational strategy: Against the background of reducing
poverty, ADB's operational strategy for Kazakhstan
encourages the transition to a market-based economy by
supporting the Government's reform agenda, institutional
change, and social protection; promotes environmental
rehabilitation; strengthens the long-term growth potential;
and encourages the creation of a new output structure and
production capacity through private sector investment. ADB
assistance is directed at six priority areas: (i) strengthened
reform management at the central and local government
levels; (ii) infrastructure, especially rehabilitation projects;
(iii) education and training; (iv) industry, focusing on the
problems of reforming medium enterprises; (v) agriculture;
and (vi) private sector development, where potential projects
have been identified in the financial, agribusiness, and
energy sectors. A new country strategy and program will
be formulated in 2001 to reflect ADB’s and the Government's
priority of fighting poverty.

Policy dialogue: Policy dialogue with the Government
in 2000 centered on poverty reduction, public investment
programming, and agricultural reform. ADB assistance on
developing the medium-term poverty reduction strategy will
help guide Kazakhstan's medium- to long-term socioeconomic development programs. Efficiency in the use of scarce
public resources will be enhanced by improvements in
preparing, monitoring, and evaluating public investment
programs. In the agriculture sector, policy dialogue focused
on strengthening the country’s policy, legal, and regulatory
frameworks, with the objective of creating an enabling
environment for implementing farm restructuring.

Loans and technical assistance: In 2000, ADB
approved three loans totaling $110 million: Almaty-Bishkek
Regional Road Rehabilitation (Kazakhstan component),
Farm Restructuring Sector Development Program (policyKazakhstan
Cumulative ADB Lending
(as of 31 December 2000)

 

Sector No. of Loans $ Million 7)
Agriculture and
Natural Resources 5 185.0 35.2
Transport and
Communications 2° 115.0 21.9
Finance 1P 100.0 19.1
Social Infrastructure 3 65.0 12.4
Multisector 2 60.0 11.4
Total 13 525.0 100.0

 

a Includes Kazakhstan loan component for the Almaty-Bishkek Regional Road
Rehabilitation amounting to $65 million approved in 2000.
b The Pension Reform Program was reclassified from “Others” to Finance.

Kazakhstan
Lending and Disbursements, 1996-2000
($ million)
0 40 80 120 160 200
2000
1999
1998
1997
1996
M5 Lending

Ml Disbursements

loan), and Farm Restructuring Sector Development Program
(investment loan). ADB also approved six technical
assistance grants totaling $3.6 million.

Project implementation: Since joining ADB in 1994,
Kazakhstan has received 13 loans, of which 9 were active
at the end of 2000. Contract awards totaled $13.6 million,
bringing the cumulative figure to about $346 million. The
contract award ratio was 10.2 percent, lower than the ADBwide average of 21 percent. Disbursements during the year
totaled $28.1 million, bringing cumulative disbursements
to $340.2 million. The disbursement ratio was 28.2 percent,
higher than the ADB-wide average of 20.5 percent.

The Government and ADB made strong efforts in 2000
to improve project implementation: counterpart funds for
ADB-financed projects were provided largely on time; the
institutional structure for project administration was
strengthened, with more project implementation unit staff

Regional and Country Highlights 63

eee eee eee eee ee ee

being recruited; and the executing agencies made
progress in complying with loan covenants and financial
management procedures. With the assistance of the
Kazakhstan Resident Mission, further improvements in
project implementation are expected. The relocation of
the Kazakhstan Resident Mission to Astana strengthened
ADB's ties with the Government and enabled ADB to
better understand the country’s development priorities
and constraints, and respond effectively to its requests
for ADB assistance.

Kyrgyz Republic
Economic performance

Economic growth: Preliminary trends for 2000 indicate a
sustainable economic recovery in the Kyrgyz Republic, with
GDP growth at about 5 percent. But for the poor performance
of food grain crops in the latter part of the year, this would
have been even higher. The agriculture sector output still
recorded a 3.9 percent growth mainly because of solid
performance in the horticulture, tobacco, and animal
husbandry subsectors. The industry sector grew at
6.0 percent.

Employment: According to official statistics, 80,900
jobs were created in 2000, with total employment reaching
1.8 million. However, the official unemployment rate
increased from 2.9 percent in 1999 to 3.1 percent in 2000;
the negative social impact of this rise was worsened by
deteriorating job quality. Migration of the workforce from
high-wage sectors to the low-wage agriculture sector drove
real wages down and poverty incidence up.

Inflation: The Government followed a tight monetary
policy in 2000 to curb inflation and stabilize the domestic
currency. Against a targeted broad money growth rate of
12 percent, money supply grew at 12.3 percent during the
year. Consumer price inflation fell to 18.7 percent in 2000
from 35.9 percent in 1999, although increases in the prices
of food products contributed 57 percent to overall inflation,
placing a heavy burden on the poor.

Fiscal balance: The Government set an ambitious
budget deficit target of 6.8 percent of GDP for 2000,
against a deficit of 12.2 percent in 1999. Depressed
industry sector output, a narrow tax base, and weak tax
administration hampered fiscal consolidation. On the
expenditure side, additional spending for defense,
necessary to prevent or at least minimize the impact of
rising military instability in the subregion, put pressure
on government finances.64 ANNUAL REPORT 2000

External sector: Foreign trade rebounded from a
21.8 percent decline in 1999 to register a 5.0 percent growth
in US dollar terms for 2000. Aided by a massive depreciation
of the som in 1999, exports grew at 9.1 percent, while
imports increased by 1.4 percent during the period.
Consequently, the trade deficit fell sharply to $50 million in
2000, from $84 million in 1999. At the end of 1999, external
debt reached $1.3 billion, or about 130 percent of annual
GDP. Tariffs have been reduced significantly, reflecting the
country’s commitment to complying with WTO entry
requirements. In 2000, the number of tariff rates was
compressed to four, with a maximum rate of 20 percent.
The new structure is expected to yield an average tariff of
5.2 percent. The domestic currency depreciated from 39 som
to the US dollar in 1999 to 48.9 som in 2000. Gross external
reserves stood at $269.4 million at the end of the third
quarter of 2000.

Domestic policies: In 2000, improvements were
made in fiscal and monetary management and in
implementing structural reforms. External debt increased,
posing a serious fiscal challenge in the medium term. As
a consequence, the Government began prioritizing its
public investment projects and began work on a
comprehensive development framework for addressing
poverty, while moving toward a market economy and
maintaining good governance.

Revived growth of light manufacturing and agro-based
industry resulted from privatizing about 60 percent
of the manufacturing subsector. Businesses
continued to face difficulties because of deficiencies in the policy
and institutional environment and 5
a weak financial infrastructure.
Public enterprise restructuring has
been delayed, further straining the
budget. The agriculture sector
showed considerable dynamism,
driven essentially by the private
farms created after 1995. This sector
could act as an engine of growth for
the entire economy.

ADB operations

Operational strategy: ADB's operational strategy for the Kyrgyz Republic
was finalized in December 1996, with the
primary objectives being to support the
Government's reform activities and
strengthen its development management by

 
    
  
  
  
  
 

encouraging institutional change, strengthening institutional
capacity, and improving public services. ADB has since made
significant changes in its operational program to address
poverty reduction. Activities will be concentrated on
improved public services, particularly those provided by local
governments; agriculture, including rural finance; human
development; and infrastructure, especially rehabilitation
projects to preserve the economic utility of past investments
in the road subsector.

Policy dialogue: Policy dialogue with the Government
continued on ADB support for policy and institutional
reforms in the financial, infrastructure, and agriculture
sectors. As part of its objective of reducing poverty, ADB
assisted the Government in developing its comprehensive
development framework to formulate and help implement
a national poverty reduction strategy. The framework has
three main thrusts: (i) poverty reduction and social
protection; (ii) sustainable economic growth; and
(iii) good governance and legal and judicial reform.
Workshops conducted from February to December 2000
helped consolidate the Government's policies and
priorities in these areas. ADB’s ongoing technical
assistance initiative in the country will help formulate
the National Strategy for Poverty Reduction, which is
expected to be completed in 2001.

Loans and technical assistance: In 2000, ADB
approved three project loans totaling $66 million:

$36 million for water supply, $25 million for
education, and $5 million for the Kyrgyz

Republic component of the Almaty-Bishkek
Regional Road Rehabilitation Project. ADB also
approved eight technical assistance projects
totaling $4.9 million.

Project implementation: Since
joining ADB in 1994, the Kyrgyz
Republic has received 18 loans, of
which 14 were active at the end of

2000. Contract awards totaled
$9.2 million, bringing the cumulative figure to $282.2 million. The
contract award ratio was 6.7 percent, lower than the ADB-wide
average of 21 percent, mainly
because newly approved projects
had not reached the contract award
phase. Disbursements during the year

~

In the Central Asian republics, ADB is
addressing the development needs by
promoting regional cooperation.totaled $21.4 million, bringing cumulative disbursements
to $256.4 million. The disbursement ratio was 11.9 percent,
lower than the ADB-wide average of 20.5 percent.

Despite fiscal constraints, ADB-financed projects in the
Kyrgyz Republic continued to perform well, although project
implementation, particularly physical infrastructure, was
hampered by bad weather. Weaknesses were identified in
the submission of project progress reports, audited accounts,
and financial statements; and in compliance with covenants.

A significant event in 2000 was the establishment of
the Kyrgyz Resident Mission, which strengthened the
Government's and ADB’s relations and opened up new
possibilities for more direct policy dialogue. It also had a
positive impact on project implementation, aid coordination,
and ADB response to civil society and nongovernment
organizations.

Kyrgyz Republic
Cumulative ADB Lending
(as of 31 December 2000)

Sector No. of Loans $ Million %
Transport and
Communications 3 105.0 23.2
Social Infrastructure 4 93.7 20.7
Agriculture and
Natural Resources 3 88.5 19.6
Finance 4 80.0 177
Multisector 3 55.0 12.2
Energy 1 30.0 6.6
Total 18 452.2 100.0

a Includes Kyrgyz Republic loan component of the Almaty-Bishkek Regional Road
Rehabilitation Project amounting to $5 million.

Kyrgyz Republic
Lending and Disbursements, 1996-2000
($ million)

0 20 40 60 80 100
2000
1999
1998
1997
1996
MM Lending

TE Disbursements

Regional and Country Highlights 65

eee eee eee eee ee ee

Tajikistan
Economic performance

Economic growth: GDP grew by 5.0 percent in 2000, up
from 3.7 percent in 1999, despite the worst drought in
74 years. The growth rate increased because of improved
stability and security following completion of the peace
process and parliamentary elections in 2000, and the
economic recovery of Russia, still a major export market
for Tajikistan. The drought, however, necessitated a
government appeal to international funding agencies for
$76.6 million in emergency food and related assistance, and
the Government allocated an additional $30 million from
the budget to purchase seeds. Cotton production rose by
7.1 percent in 2000. Industry sector output grew by
10.3 percent in 2000, compared with 5 percent in 1999.

Employment: Labor markets remained weak, and the
narrow base of economic growth has limited employment
opportunities. The official unemployment rate in August
2000 was 3.1 percent; the unofficial rate was about
30 percent. The official figures do not include unemployment
in inactive state-owned enterprises.

Inflation: Consumer price inflation was 24.0 percent
in 2000. Inflation was fueled by a drought-induced 30 percent
rise in food prices and by high world energy prices. The
currency continued to depreciate, falling by 30 percent
against the US dollar in 2000. In October, the somoni
replaced the Tajik ruble as the national currency at a rate
of 1 somoni to 1,000 Tajik rubles.

Fiscal balance: The fiscal position improved in 2000
because of better tax collection, continued rationalization
of government expenditures, and positive economic growth.
Improved tax collection led to government revenue o
13.7 percent of GDP, from 13.5 percent in 1999. The budget
deficit in 2000 fell to 0.7 percent of GDP despite the
emergency expenditures required by the drought, compare
with 3.1 percent in 1999.

External sector: The current account defici
increased to 5.7 percent of GDP in 2000, compared with
3.5 percent of GDP in 1999. Imports expanded by
13.6 percent in 2000, while exports grew by 11.4 percent.
Exports were led by aluminum, which grew by 44 percent
and accounted for 55 percent of exports. Cotton exports
fell by 5.4 percent and accounted for 12 percent of exports.
Gross international reserves stood at 1.9 months o
imports at the end of 2000, up from 1.0 month at the en
of 1999. Tajikistan’s external debt is over 100 percent o
GDP, and the country’s debt service burden is becoming
fiscally unsustainable, equal to 44 percent of governmen|66 ANNUAL REPORT 2000

Poeeceseseseereeesreeesreercecee eee eee eeeneee®

revenue in 2000. The PRC converted Tajikistan’s bilateral
debt to a grant in 2000.

Domestic policies: The authorities continued to
pursue tight monetary and fiscal policies in 2000. Although
Tajikistan’s three-year IMF reform program went off track
in early 2000 because of loose monetary policy, strong
corrective measures were taken by the middle of 2000, and
the third year of the program was approved in October. Tax
collection improved and fiscal targets were restored. The
Government has committed to reducing poverty, and in
October completed an interim national poverty reduction
strategy that incorporates employment promotion,
economic growth, and social safety net reforms.

The structural reform process, including privatization,
accelerated in 2000.

ADB operations

Operational strategy: ADB’s interim operational strategy
for Tajikistan, endorsed in 1998, aims to facilitate the
country’s transition to a market economy, assist in the
postconflict rehabilitation and reconstruction, and support
natural disaster rehabilitation. The strategy focuses on
agriculture and agroprocessing; infrastructure rehabilitation, especially road and power; and education. After a
detailed social sector review, support in the third area was
broadened to include health and social protection.
Policy dialogue: Policy dialogue with the Government
continued on reforms begun under the Postconflict
Infrastructure Program, particularly in the energy and
transport sectors. ADB supported the Government in
preparing new energy and transport laws that established
the Ministry of Energy and the Ministry of Transport in 2000,
and worked with the Government to produce an environment profile of Tajikistan that will help guide ADB’s future
support. Policy dialogue in the agriculture and social sectors
is ongoing. ADB will continue to assist in strengthening the
legal system. ADB initiated its poverty reduction strategy

Tajikistan
Cumulative ADB Lending
(as of 31 December 2000)

Sector No. of Loans $ Million %
Multisector 3 45.0 45.5
Energy 1 34.0 34.3
Transport and

Communications 1 20.0 20.2
Total 5 99.0 100.0

 

for Tajikistan in April 2000, in close coordination with the
World Bank, International Monetary Fund, and United
Nations Development Programme. Based on a government
request and on discussions with major stakeholders, ADB
will assist the Government in drafting a national poverty
reduction strategy; a poverty partnership agreement with
ADB will follow.

Loans and technical assistance: In 2000, ADB
approved two project loans totaling $54 million. The Power
Rehabilitation Project will improve power supply to poor
communities in the war-damaged Khatlon and Dushanbe
regions and will rehabilitate the Nurek Hydropower Plant
and Central Hydropower Plant. The Road Rehabilitation
Project will improve transport infrastructure in the Khatlon
region. Both loans received cofinancing—a first for ADB
operations in Tajikistan. The OPEC Fund committed
$4.0 million cofinancing for the road project; and the Islamic
Development Bank and Switzerland scheduled cofinancing
of $9.3 million and $6.0 million, respectively, for the power
project. ADB also approved 10 technical assistance grants
totaling $4.8 million.

Project implementation: Since joining ADB in 1998,
Tajikistan has received five loans. Contract awards totaled
$13.7 million, bringing the cumulative figure to $23.6 million.
The contract award ratio was 18.4 percent, lower than the
ADB-wide average of 21 percent. Disbursements during the
year totaled $12.3 million, bringing cumulative disbursements
to $22.2 million. The disbursement ratio was 35.5 percent,
higher than the ADB-wide average of 20.5 percent.

The second tranche ($10 million) of the Postconflict
Infrastructure Program loan, approved in 1998, was released
in December 2000 after reforms in the transport and energy
sectors were implemented.

Tajikistan

Lending and Disbursements, 1998-2000

($ million)

0 15 30 45 60

2000

1999

1998

 

Ml Lending
Hl DisbursementsTajikistan’s capacity to implement projects is limited
by the Government's tight fiscal position and the resulting
scarcity of counterpart funds; weak administrative
structures; and limited experience with ADB policies,
procedures, and practices. In 2000, implementation delays
were experienced in satisfying loan effectivity conditions
and fulfilling program loan conditions. Government officials
and executing agency staff participated in a regional project
implementation seminar in Tashkent, but more work will
be required to raise implementation skills to an acceptable
level. All ADB projects are accompanied by substantial
technical assistance for capacity building.

Turkmenistan

Economic performance

Economic growth: Turkmenistan experienced a sharp fall
in GDP following independence. Since 1998, however, the
economy has improved steadily. For the first time since
independence, real GDP increased, rising by 7 percent in
1998 and 16 percent in 1999. These increases resulted from
improved cotton, wheat, gas, and oil production. In 2000,
GDP growth increased to 17.6 percent, mainly because of
large-scale gas exports to Russia.

Employment: Turkmenistan guarantees employment
to every citizen. Thus, official unemployment figures do not
exist. The share of employment of working age people
(defined as men between the ages of 16 and 59 and women
between the ages of 16 and 54) decreased from 78 percent
of the labor force in 1992 to 74.4 percent in 1998, despite
a steady increase in the employable population, indicating
an overall increase in hidden unemployment. Almost
48 percent of the population is employed in agriculture,
including forestry and fisheries, while less than 13 percent
work in the industry sector.

Inflation: Inflation has remained low since 1998, not
only because of tight monetary control, but also because
of an extensive subsidy for basic consumer goods. Yearon-year inflation for the first five months of 2000 was about
11 percent, compared with an average of 20 percent for the
same period in 1999.

Fiscal balance: Unlike most republics of the former
Soviet Union, Turkmenistan did not incur a fiscal crisis after
independence. According to official statistics, state budget
deficits appeared to be under control. Data released by the

Regional and Country Highlights 67

eee eee eee eee ee ee

finance ministry in early July showed a budget surplus equivalent to 0.3 percent of GDP for the period January-June 2000.

External sector:’ The current account deficit widened
to 33 percent of GDP in 1998, mainly caused by a difficult
export situation, accompanied by rising imports. With the
resumption of gas exports to Russia, the trade balance
improved, with a recorded trade surplus of $400 million for
the first nine months of 2000. The current account is
expected to experience a small deficit in 2000, mainly as
a result of a growing deficit in the services account.

The capital account improved significantly after
independence, recording an $870 million surplus in 1998.
Turkmenistan’s external debt surged to 54.0 percent of GDP
in 1999 from a debt-free position following independence.
Reflecting the rise in external debt and the fall in export
earnings, the debt service ratio increased from 35.1 percent
in 1997 to 97.6 percent in 1998, dropping to 55.0 percent
in 1999 following a sharp increase in export revenues. The
country’s gross official reserves reached $1.5 billion
(equivalent to about 14 months of imports) in 1999.

Several measures have been taken to attract foreign
direct investment (FDI) since independence. FDI peaked
at $233.0 million in 1995 and has declined to around
$100.0 million in 1999.

Domestic policies: The Government is pursuing a
strategy of social and economic transformation. Extensive
state-led investment and ambitious agricultural targets
appear in the development plan, which may not be feasible,
given the lack of FDI and concessional assistance and the
ongoing regionwide drought.

The Government's progress in privatization has been
limited. Only a few state-owned enterprises have been
privatized, and their importance to the economy as a whole
is marginal. Moreover, the private sector has limited access
to foreign exchange, making structural investments—which
would require foreign equipment—difficult.

The main challenges facing the Government are
consolidating the budget and improving public resource
management, unifying and liberalizing the exchange rate,
and reducing further the role of the state in commercial
and productive activities. Turkmenistan has good long-term
potential for developing its resource base, but realizing this
will require significant changes in policies and carefully
managing debt and public expenditure. Diversifying the
economy remains a challenge, since it remains dominated
by the production and export of energy and cotton and is
thus vulnerable to external shocks.

9 External sector data were provided by the International Monetary Fund.68 ANNUAL REPORT 2000

Poeeceseseseereeesreeesreercecee eee eee eeeneee®

ADB operations

Turkmenistan became ADB's 59" member in August 2000.
Aneconomic mission visited Turkmenistan in November 2000
to gather information needed to prepare an economic report
and an interim operational strategy that will define ADB’s initial
development cooperation activities in the country.

The proposed strategy, which will be consistent with
the Government's long-term development objectives as
described in its 2000-2010 Development Program and with
ADB's objective to reduce poverty, will have two main
strategic objectives: (i) enhance human and social
development and (ii) promote sustainable economic growth.
The focus of human and social development will be on
maintaining and upgrading the human resource base in terms
of basic education and vocational training; building capacity
to improve public sector management; and improving basic
services, such as clean drinking water, sanitation, and
heating, especially for the rural poor. The focus of sustainable growth will include improving the technological efficiency
of agricultural production; ensuring ecological safety primarily
in terms of bettering the management of water resources to
increase efficiency and improve maintenance of irrigation
systems; and encouraging private sector development.

Uzbekistan

Economic performance

Economic growth: GDP growth was 4.0 percent in 2000,
compared with an official target of 4.2 percent, and growth
of 4.4 percent in 1999, representing a fifth year of consecutive GDP growth. The agriculture sector output contracted
because of a poor cotton harvest resulting from the drought.
While growth in the industry sector remained strong, it was
lower than expected because of a sharp drop in FDI.

Employment: With new employment opportunities
expected to grow slowly, the emergence of surplus labor
will pose a major challenge. Although officially registered
unemployment was just 0.6 percent of the workforce at the
end of 1999, considerable hidden unemployment and
underemployment exist in the state-owned enterprises and
collective farms.

Inflation: Although official statistics reported average annual inflation at 24.9 percent for 2000, compared
with 29.1 percent for 1999, estimates by the International
Monetary Fund and the European Bank for Reconstruction
and Development put the inflation rate much higher, at
over 50 percent. The inflation target of 20.0 percent, set

by the authorities at the beginning of 2000, was exceeded
because of a 51.0 percent increase in wages and an
increase in fuel prices effective 1 August. Interest rates
are negative in real terms.

Fiscal balance: With improved tax collection and
expenditure control measures, the state budget recorded a
deficit of 1.0 percent of GDP for 2000, lower than the
2.8 percent deficit targeted at the beginning of the year. Total
government revenues reached 28.5 percent of GDP in 2000,
with total expenditures equal to 29.6 percent of GDP.

External sector: The current account position
improved, with a surplus equivalent to 0.8 percent of GDP
being attained in 2000, compared with a deficit of 0.1 percent
in 1999. Export earnings increased slightly in 2000 despite
lower gold prices and falling cotton export volumes. Imports
declined because of increased import compression and
intensified import substitution policies, resulting from
devaluation of the domestic currency and import controls.
The external debt increased from 26.4 percent to
29.0 percent of GDP over the same period.

Domestic policies: Monetary policy remained
relatively loose, with interest rates negative and growth in
money supply estimated at 27.1 percent in 2000. Bank credit
increased significantly in real terms. Overall, the country’s
financial sector, including its equity and bond markets, is
at an early stage of development.

Some major steps in banking reforms have been
undertaken in recent years. A government resolution,
enacted in January 1999, regulated the use of bank accounts
for tax purposes. In addition, the Government has created
a Bank Privatization Agency and nominated five banks for
the first round of privatization.

In 2000, the Government took several steps to reduce
the number of exchange rates and the spread between them.
Current account convertibility remains one of the main
policy concerns to be addressed by the Government in 2001.

ADB operations

Operational strategy: ADB's new operational strategy for
Uzbekistan, approved in March 2000, supports reducing
poverty in a sustainable manner. The strategy, which
recognizes the Government's reform program as being
essential for reducing poverty, has two objectives:
(i) manage the transition by developing market-based
institutions, which will involve supporting basic reforms,
developing the financial sector, and minimizing the social
costs of transition especially in social and urban services;
and (ii) harness the potential for growth by encouraging
regional cooperation and trade, developing agriculture andUzbekistan
Cumulative ADB Lending
(as of 31 December 2000)

Sector No. of Loans $ Million 7
Transport and
Communications 3 190.0 49.1
Social Infrastructure 3 97.0 25.1
Agriculture and
Natural Resources 1 50.0 12.9
Finance 1 50.0 12.9
Total 8 387.0 100.0

 

rural development, and providing direct support to the
private sector to complement public sector projects.

Policy dialogue: Policy dialogue with the Government
continued on reforms in the education and railways
subsectors, and small and medium enterprise (SME)
development. In the railways subsector, dialogue was on,
among others, adopting a regulatory framework,
restructuring the Uzbekistan railways, and assessing the
social impact of the restructuring program. In SME
development, dialogue was on encouraging growth and
protecting the legitimate interests of SMEs engaged in
lawful entrepreneurial activities; guaranteeing legal and
intellectual property rights of entrepreneurs; and
introducing transparency, equity, and fairness in the
inspection process. In processing the SME Development
Project, significant achievements were also made on
foreign exchange and surrender systems.

Loans and technical assistance: In 2000, ADB
approved three loans totaling $177 million to support
reforms in the senior secondary education, modernize railways, and develop SMEs. ADB also approved five technical
assistance grants totaling $3.3 million: two for project preparation and three for advisory and operational purposes.

Project implementation: Since joining ADB in 1995,
Uzbekistan has received eight loans, all of which were active
at the end of 2000. Contract awards totaled $49.7 million,
bringing the cumulative figure to $102.2 million. The contract
award ratio was 10.5 percent, lower than the ADB-wide
average of 21 percent. Disbursements during the year totaled
$60.9 million, bringing cumulative disbursements to
$78.8 million. The disbursement ratio was 31.7 percent,
higher than the ADB-wide average of 20.5 percent.

In June 2000, ADB conducted its second country portfolio review. To address project implementation constraints,
ADB and the Government developed an action plan that
recommends increased high-level government monitoring
of ADB-financed projects and more frequent meetings with

Regional and Country Highlights 69

eee eee eee eee ee ee

Uzbekistan
Lending and Disbursements, 1996-2000
($ million)

0 35 70 130
2000
1999
1998 ‘=
1997
1996

M5 Lending
HM Disbursements

200

resident mission staff. Also, ADB will continue to strengthen
the supervisory capabilities of executing agency staff on all
aspects of project implementation. In response to ADB's Resident Mission Policy, additional staff were assigned to the
Uzbekistan Resident Mission to handle portfolio management.

Azerbaijan

Economic performance

Economic growth: Real GDP growth continued to be strong
at 11.4 percent in 2000, following an impressive 7.4 percent
in 1999. Strong performance in the oil and oil-related
subsectors, which grew by more than 20 percent and now
accounts for about 26 percent of GDP, was the major
contributing factor. Agriculture, on the other hand, registered
only an estimated 6 percent increase. Growth remained slow
in the other non-oil sectors.

Employment: In 2000, unemployment officially stood
at only 1 percent of the labor force, but underemployment
is estimated to have been about 18 percent, a level similar
to that for 1999. Unemployment among those aged 29 or
below accounted for 53 percent of the overall total.

Inflation: Consumer price inflation accelerated sharply
during the first few years following independence, but the
macroeconomic stabilization program launched in 1995
brought inflation down to 3.7 percent in 1997. In 2000,
consumer price inflation measured 1.8 percent, compared
with negative 8.5 percent in 1999. The return of inflation
resulted from the easing of monetary policy beginning in
mid-1999, which caused the broad money supply to increase
above 20 percent in 2000, compared with 15 percent in 1999.
Rising world oil prices also contributed to the return of inflation.70 ANNUAL REPORT 2000

Poeeceseseseereeesreeesreercecee eee eee eeeneee®

Fiscal balance: The total fiscal deficit in 2000 is estimated
to have fallen to 2.3 percent of GDP from 5.4 percent of GDP
in 1999. Reduction in public expenditure, estimated at
21.5 percent of GDP in 2000 as compared with 25 percent of
GDP in 1999, was the main factor contributing to lower fiscal
deficit. Reduced levels of capital outlays and spending on wages
and salaries brought down the expenditure level. Total
government revenues fell slightly to 19.2 percent of GDP in
2000, compared with 19.6 percent of GDP in 1999.

External sector: The current account deficit fell in
2000 to $43 million, or 0.9 percent of GDP, from $600 million
(15 percent of GDP) in 1999. The trade balance improved
in 2000, registering a surplus of $400 million, or 8 percent
of GDP, compared with a deficit of $408 million (10.2 percent
of GDP) in 1999. Revenues from oil exports, which benefited
from rising world oil prices, were the main contributing
factor. Total exports rose to $1.9 billion in 2000 from
$1.0 billion in 1999. Total imports also increased, but by a
much smaller degree, to $1.5 billion from $1.4 billion during
the same period, while imports in the oil-related subsector
fell by 28 percent. With the end of the major investment
phase of the Azerbaijan International Operating Company,
a major oil consortium, gross foreign investment fell to
$493 million in 2000, compared with $688 million in 1999.
Gross foreign exchange reserves are estimated to have
increased slightly from $674 million in 1999 to $680 million
by the end of 2000. Total external public and publicguaranteed debt rose to $1.2 billion by end-2000, equivalent
to 24 percent of GDP. Meanwhile, external debt service costs
rose slightly to 4.4 percent of exports of goods and services
in 2000, compared with 4 percent a year earlier.

Domestic policies: The Government continued its
tight fiscal stance, but eased monetary policy in 2000 in
response to the rebound in world oil prices and the gradual
return to economic stability in Russia and other neighboring
countries. With the adoption of a more flexible exchange
rate, the manat (M) depreciated to an average level of
M4,474 to the US dollar in 2000, compared with M4,126 per
US dollar in 1999, helping promote export competitiveness.
The amended Tax Code, approved in July 2000, is expected
to expand fiscal revenues by broadening the tax base.
However, increasing much-needed social expenditures while
keeping the fiscal deficit under control remains a challenge
for the Government, as do managing larger projected oil
revenues and diversifying industry to reduce oil dependence.

ADB operations

ADB's interim operational strategy for Azerbaijan focuses on
reducing poverty and raising the people's living standards in

a sustainable manner. ADB's operations will initially enhance
human development; promote sustainable growth, including
private sector development; and support good governance
and institutional strengthening. Two operational areas have
been prioritized: (i) direct assistance to the poor and
(ii) poverty reduction through non-oil sector development.

Mongolia

Economic performance

Economic growth: Mongolia’s economy continued to perform below its potential in 2000, with marginal GDP growth,
increased inflation, and deteriorating current account
balance. Following a 3.5 percent average annual GDP growth
from 1997 to 1999, GDP grew by only 0.5 percent in 2000.
During 1999-2000, Mongolia experienced its most severe
winter in three decades; as a consequence, nearly 10 percent
of the country’s livestock were lost, affecting the livelihood
of about 20 percent of the population.

Since 1995, the percentage of people living below the
official poverty line has remained high at about 36.0 percent,
while both the depth and the severity of poverty have
increased. The poor, especially small livestock herders and
the unemployed in urban areas, remain highly vulnerable to
even minor external shocks, adverse climatic developments,
and the difficulties involved in making the transition to a
market economy.

Employment: The official unemployment rate is
10 percent of the registered workforce. Unemployment is
strongly correlated with poverty in the urban areas, where
52 percent of the poor are unemployed, compared with
20 percent unemployed among the rural poor and 30 percent
of the poor nationwide.

Inflation: Consumer price inflation, which had declined
from 37.0 percent in 1997 to 7.6 percent in 1999, rose to
11.6 percent in 2000. The increase in food prices was
particularly sharp, which had an adverse effect on the living
standards of the urban poor who spend most of their income
on food. To a large extent, excessive growth in money supply
caused the resurgence of inflation in 2000. Money supply
(M2), increased to about 32 percent in 1999, and rapid
growth in money supply continued for most of 2000. During
the first 10 months of the year, money supply growth
averaged about 35.0 percent, although by December 2000,
this had fallen to 17.6 percent.

Fiscal balance: The negative impacts of the severe 19992000 winter made macroeconomic management difficult. The
Government's response was to follow expansionary fiscal andmonetary policies. The fiscal deficit imbalance was exacerbated
by the run-up to the July parliamentary elections, reaching
about 10.8 percent of GDP, which breached the 8.5 percent
target for 2000 agreed under the International Monetary Fund's
Poverty Reduction and Growth Facility program.

External sector: A large fiscal imbalance and rapid
monetary expansion contributed to the persistence of a
current account deficit of nearly 15.0 percent of GDP in 2000.
Large current account deficits in recent years have resulted
in rapid accumulation of external debt, which nearly doubled
from $532 million in 1996 to about $935 million in 2000,
or from 46 percent of GDP to nearly 100 percent of GDP.
About 53 percent of this debt is owed to multilateral
institutions, 40 percent to bilateral donors, and the
remainder to commercial lenders.

Domestic policies: The landslide victory of the
Mongolian People’s Revolutionary Party in July 2000 ended
the political instability that had afflicted the country since
1998. The new Government has targeted an annual GDP
growth rate of 6 percent for the next four years. In addition,
the new Government has emphasized the importance of
deepening economic reforms, promoting an export-oriented
economy, and improving governance and social equity in
its action program for the next four years.

 

 

ADB operations

Operational strategy: Mongolia was the first DMC to enter
into a Poverty Partnership Agreement with ADB. ADB’s
operational strategy for Mongolia was thus revised in May.
Since poverty in Mongolia is largely income-based and found
in urban areas, the new strategy emphasizes employmentgenerating investments that will enhance the productive
potential of the economy and create an enabling
environment for the private sector. ADB operations over
the medium term will focus on the financial, agriculture,
public, social, and urban development sectors. Support
to the transport sector will be planned to maximize
its poverty reduction impact.

ADB supports the building of roads and
other physical infrastructure to
enhance the
development
of remote

areas.

Regional and Country Highlights 71

Policy dialogue: Policy dialogue with the Government focused on formulating the new operational strategy
and resulted in the Poverty Partnership Agreement. ADB
and the Government agreed to work together to reduce,
at least by half, the proportion of people below the official poverty line by 2005. Extensive policy dialogue was
undertaken in developing the financial and agriculture
sector programs that were supported with lending in 2000.
Support for reforms within specific sectors and subsectors
continued.

Loans and technical assistance: In 2000, ADB approved
four loans totaling $41.9 million: the Cadastral Survey and
Land Registration Project, the Second Financial Sector Reform
Program, and the Agriculture Sector Development Program
(program and investment loans). ADB also approved five
technical assistance grants totaling $3.6 million for preparing
a rural finance project and a housing sector finance project
programmed for 2001, strengthening the financial sector,
building capacity in the agriculture sector, and assisting in a
cadastral survey and land registration.

Project implementation: Since joining ADB in 1991,
Mongolia has received 25 loans, of which 15 were active
at the end of 2000. Contract awards totaled $36.4 million,
bringing the cumulative figure to $340.5 million. The contract
award ratio was 27 percent, higher than the ADB-wide
average of 21 percent. Disbursements during the year
totaled $32.9 million, bringing cumulative
disbursements to $321.9 million. The disbursement
ratio was 25.2 percent, higher than
the ADB-wide
average of
20.5 percent.72 ANNUAL REPORT 2000

Poeeceseseseereeesreeesreercecee eee eee eeeneee®

Despite fiscal constraints and institutional weaknesses, ADB's ongoing loan portfolio in Mongolia was
generally performing satisfactorily. Given the tight
budgetary situation, adequate provision of counterpart
funds to ADB-funded projects was a major concern. A
time-bound action plan agreed between the Government
and ADB includes measures to accelerate project start-up,
use ADB's advance procurement action procedures,
enhance implementation readiness of new projects, release
counterpart funds in a timely manner, and improve
timeliness in submitting audited financial statements.

The Resident Mission in Mongolia, approved in August
2000, is expected to play a significant role in improving
portfolio performance.

Mongolia
Cumulative ADB Lending
(as of 31 December 2000)

 

Sector No. of Loans $ Million 7
Transport and
Communications 5 134.5 28.7
Energy 4 93.8 20.0
Agriculture and
Natural Resources 5 64.9 13.8
Industry and
Nonfuel Minerals 2 60.0 12.8
Finance 3 53.0 11.3
Social Infrastructure 5 38.2 8.1
Others 1 25.0 5.3
Total 25 469.4 100.0
Mongolia
Lending and Disbursements, 1996-2000
($ million)
0 20 40 60 80
2000
1999
1998
1997
1996
MM Lending

I Disbursements

People’s Republic of China

Economic performance

Economic growth: The People’s Republic of China’s (PRC)
GDP growth rate reached 8 percent in 2000, compared with
7.1 percent in 1999. Growth in 2000 was mainly driven by
domestic consumption and investment. Industry sector
growth rose by 9.6 percent in 2000, compared with
8.1 percent in 1999. The agriculture sector, on the other
hand, suffered from a severe drought and a decline in retail
food prices. Consequently, the agriculture sector growth
declined from 2.8 percent in 1999 to 2.4 percent in 2000.
Retail sales grew by 9.7 percent in 2000, compared with
6.8 percent in 1999. A combination of fiscal stimulus
packages and recovery in nonstate investment led to strong
growth in domestic fixed investment. Expansionary
monetary policy and low interest rates also supported
domestic demand and growth. The prime lending rate was
5.9 percent in 2000, compared with 11 percent in mid-1996.
Since June 1999, the domestic bank lending rate has been
lower than the comparable rate on dollar-denominated
assets in the international capital market. The industry sector
maintained robust growth. The profitability of both state-owned
and private enterprises improved because of increased
demand and a generally favorable economic environment.

Employment: The urban unemployment rate in 2000
was about the same as the official estimate of urban
unemployment at the end of 1999: 3.1 percent of the urban
labor force. However, this estimate does not cover workers
who were laid off as part of state-owned enterprise reforms
and have not found alternative employment.

Inflation: The deflationary trend of the past two years
was arrested in 2000, with consumer price inflation increasing by about 0.4 percent. However, if the price of oil-related
goods and price adjustments of some service products are
excluded, the consumer price index would have declined
by 1.5 percent in 2000.

Fiscal balance: The March 2000 budget continued an
expansionary fiscal stance. For 2000, government expenditures increased by 20.4 percent, and revenues by
16.9 percent. The fiscal deficit was at 2.8 percent of GDP
in 2000, compared with 2.1 percent of GDP in 1999.

External sector: Exports rose by about 28 percent to
$249 billion and imports surged by about 37 percent to $217 billion in 2000. The growth of PRC’s exports to the Republic of
Korea, Russia, and the countries of the Association of Southeast
Asian Nations increased over 40 percent during the year,
while its imports of primary products, such as crude oil,
metal, wood and timber, and paper, increased by 82 percent.The current account surplus in 2000 was about
$14.0 billion, compared with $15.6 billion in 1999. Actual
foreign direct investment (FDI) increased by 1.0 percent in
2000. FDI contracts in 2000 increased by 51.3 percent.
Foreign exchange reserves of about $165.0 billion, an
external debt of $151.0 billion, and a debt service ratio of
15.0 percent define the external payments position.

Domestic policies: Since 1998, fiscal and monetary
policies have supported domestic demand and growth.
Lowering interest rates and reserve requirements for banks
has eased monetary policy. This overall policy stance
continued in 2000. Broad money supply growth was
15.0 percent in 2000, similar to that in 1999. To prepare the
economy for membership in the World Trade Organization
(WTO), the People’s Bank of China considered introducing
mechanisms to gradually allow a greater role for market
forces in determining the exchange and interest rates.
Expansionary fiscal policy was again adopted in 2000 to
increase investment in infrastructure and stimulate growth.
The fiscal deficit was reduced because of increased revenue
collection. Tighter tax administration and stricter enforcement of antismuggling measures increased tax revenues.
Improved profitability of industrial enterprises also helped
revenue collection.

The Government addressed worsening urban
unemployment by promoting
the development of the
private sector, especially the
small and medium enterprises (SMEs), and initiating
reforms of the social security
system such as unemployment insurance and the minimum living standard support
system for urban residents.

Building on a constitutional amendment giving
greater constitutional status
to the private sector, several
economic laws were enacted
to develop a better legal and
regulatory framework for
the market economy to
function efficiently. The
Government also sought to
improve private firms’ access to credit by setting up
credit guarantee schemes
for SMEs in 70 cities.

If Asia and the Pacific are
to be free of poverty,
children must be placed
high on the list of
national priorities.

   
  
  
    

Regional and Country Highlights 73

People’s Republic of China
GDP Growth Rate (percent)

1996 1997 1998 1999 2000
15.0

12.0
9.0
6.0
3.0
0.0

The PRC's accession to WTO and the commitments to
cut tariffs, liberalize trade and investment, and open up
domestic sectors for foreign participation will bring
significant efficiency gains and wider consumer choices. In
preparation, the Government has amended three major laws
relating to foreign investment: foreign joint ventures law,
foreign cooperatives law, and solely owned foreign-funded
ventures law. The Government has also revised several
laws, including a patent law, to make them more
compatible with WTO rules. More than 1,000 laws
and regulations will be reviewed to make them
consistent with WTO rules.

In the past 20 years of reform,
substantial disparities in regional
living standards have developed. Per capita GDP in the
western region of the country is
about two thirds the national
average and only one third that
in the eastern coastal region.
The March 2000 session of the
National People’s Congress
endorsed a proactive policy for
promoting growth, developing
infrastructure, and improving
natural resource management
in the country's western region.

ADB operations

Operational strategy: ADB's
operational strategy for the
PRC emphasizes three broad
objectives: (i) improving economic efficiency, (ii) promoting74 ANNUAL REPORT 2000

Poeeceseseseereeesreeesreercecee eee eee eeeneee®

growth to reduce poverty, and (iii) ensuring environmental
protection and natural resource management. The pursuit
of these objectives will help maximize employment creation,
correct factor market distortions, address market failures
of rapid growth by spreading the benefits of growth more
equitably, and reduce environmental degradation.

ADB will continue to assist the Government in
deepening its macroeconomic structural reforms. Economic
efficiency will be improved by adopting market-based
approaches in all sectors in which ADB operates.

To promote economic growth and reduce poverty,
traditional growth projects are being located in poor regions.
ADB will also incorporate components in traditional
economic growth projects that will have a broader impact
on poverty reduction, such as including feeder and market
roads in highway projects and rural electrification in power
projects. While the share of ADB-supported projects in the
inland provinces is increasing, support for key projects in
the coastal provinces—especially those that improve the
environment in urban areas, address social concerns, or
support the private sector—will continue.

ADB targets six areas for environmental protection
and natural resource management: (i) improving air and
water quality in urban areas; (ii) increasing efficiency and
greater diversification to cleaner sources in the energy
sector; (iii) increasing energy conservation and using
clean technology processes in the industry sector;
(iv) promoting comprehensive basin planning and
pollution cleanup in rivers and lakes; (v) protecting
watersheds, conserving biodiversity, and preserving
unique ecosystems; and (vi) strengthening institutional
capacity in sectoral agencies.

People’s Republic of China
Cumulative ADB Lending
(as of 31 December 2000)

Sector No. of Loans  $ Million %

Transport and

Communications 35 4,968.0 48.2
Energy 17 1,866.3 18.1
Social Infrastructure 7 846.5 8.2
Multisector 6 730.0 71
Industry and

Nonfuel Minerals 5 686.8 6.7
Finance 6 530.0 5.2
Agriculture and

Natural Resources 8 513.9 5.0
Others 1 156.0 15
Total 85 10,297.5 100.0

 

Policy dialogue: Policy dialogue with the Government
focused on protecting the environment, improving
development management, and reducing poverty, including
developing social safety nets.

At the International Poverty Reduction Conference in
May 2000, which was cosponsored by ADB with World Bank,
United Nations Development Programme, and PRC’s Leading
Group on Poverty Alleviation and Development, participants
agreed that the delivery of poverty reduction programs could
be strengthened by developing mechanisms that target poor
people living outside the poor rural areas. Recognizing that
urban unemployment and poverty are likely to increase as
market-oriented reform deepened, ADB actively engaged
the Government in promoting social security reforms to
offset the social costs of enterprise reform and address the
threat of rising urban poverty.

Efforts to support sound development management,
including discussions on ADB's Anticorruption Policy,
continued in 2000. ADB promoted transparent and
competitive bidding procedures in the PRC in procurement.
Through its Law and Policy Reform Program, ADB continued
to assist the Government in developing a legal and
regulatory framework consistent with the needs of a market
economy. Advisory inputs from the ongoing technical
assistance for the Development of Economic Laws are being
used to either prepare or improve seven pieces of legislation
pertaining to bankruptcy, company law, social security,
administrative licensing, closure of financial institutions,
commercial and economic entities law, and trust law. Through
active interaction with other coinvestors, ADB is also helping
advance corporate governance in private sector enterprises.

In 2000, an ADB-supported seminar discussed the
global and domestic impact of the PRC's membership in

People’s Republic of China
Lending and Disbursements, 1996-2000
($ million)

0 300 600 900 1,200 1,500
2000
1999
1998
1997
1996

Ml Lending
Hl Disbursementsthe WTO. The policy issues and challenges facing the PRC
as a WTO member were also highlighted in ADB’s 2000
country economic review of the PRC.

ADB continued to advance its environment improvement agenda in the PRC. An international conference in
November 2000—sponsored by the PRC Council for
International Cooperation on Environment and Development, of which ADB is a member—brought many recommendations on improving the environment to the attention
of senior PRC leaders. As a result of the policy dialogue for
the wind power project, a “green credit” system for wind
energy projects will be developed, thus furthering the
environment agenda. A major focus of ADB's environment
work in 2000 was transjurisdictional pollution issues for
which a cluster technical assistance was approved.

Loans and technical assistance: In 2000, ADB
approved six loans totaling $872.3 million. These included
a railway project and two road projects, which are located
in the inland provinces and will improve access to markets
for poor communities in the provinces of Anhui, Guizhou,
and Shaanxi, and Chongqing Municipality; an agriculture
development project focusing on poverty reduction in West
Henan; a wastewater treatment and water resources
development in Tianjin; and a project to develop wind power
in Xinjiang, Heilongjiang, and Liaoning provinces. The Wind
Power Project involved $12 million Global Environment
Facility (GEF) cofinancing—half as a grant and half as a zero
interest loan—the first time ADB mobilized GEF cofinancing
in the PRC.

ADB also approved 25 technical assistance grants
totaling $16.7 million. Of these, 7 were to prepare new
projects and 18 were to support policy-oriented studies and
promote capacity building. One technical assistance project
will assist the Government in preparing a strategic study
for supporting the sustainable development of the western
region, where most of the PRC’s absolute poor live. In
addition, ADB approved an equity investment of up to
$25 million in a fund designed to attract foreign investors
to invest in private sector companies.

Project implementation: Since joining ADB in 1986,
the PRC has received 85 loans, of which 48 were active at
the end of 2000. Contract awards totaled $757.9 million,
bringing the cumulative figure to $6.2 billion. The contract
award ratio was 27.5 percent, higher than the ADB-wide
average of 21 percent. Disbursements during the year totaled
$847.5 million, bringing cumulative disbursements to
$5.8 billion. The disbursement ratio was 22.8 percent, higher
than the ADB-wide average of 20.5 percent.

The PRC has demonstrated a strong capability for
project implementation. Overall, portfolio performance

Regional and Country Highlights 75

eee eee eee eee ee ee

improved in 2000, compared with 1999 in terms of
implementing loans and technical assistance projects and
submitting audited financial statements.

Establishing the PRC Resident Mission (PRCM) was a
significant event in ADB's PRC operations in 2000. The PRCM
will help ADB strengthen portfolio management, address
project implementation issues, and provide training to
executing agencies. The PRCM enabled ADB to strengthen
its partnership with the Government, enhance its relationships with the local funding community, raise its profile in
the domestic and international media, and reach out to
nongovernment organizations.

Southeast Asia

In 2000, the Southeast Asian economies maintained their
growth momentum that began in 1999. All these economies
registered positive growth rates, with Malaysia recording
the highest at 8.5 percent, and Thailand and the Philippines
the lowest at about 4.0 percent. Malaysia achieved
substantial progress in financial and corporate restructuring,

Selected Southeast Asian Economies
GDP Growth Rates (percent)

1996 1997 1998 1999 2000
e ° ® ° ®
15.0
10.0 + Myanmar

   
 
 
   
  
   

5.0
Lao People's

0.0 = Democratic Republic Cambodia

(6.0) 5
(10.0) 5
(15.0) ~

1996 1997 1998 1999 2000
° ° ® ® e
15.0 5
10.0 Malaysia

   
   

5.0
ippines

0.0 5
(6.0) 5

(10.0) 5

 

 

 

 

 

(15.0) -76 ANNUAL REPORT 2000

Poeeceseseseereeesreeesreercecee eee eee eeeneee®

which contributed to its sound growth. Nonperforming loans
in Malaysia decreased significantly by the end of 2000,
thereby enabling the local banks to increase the supply of
credit; the economic recovery, in turn, permitted borrowers
to accelerate debt service. In contrast, the restructuring in
Indonesia was delayed for financial and political reasons,
resulting in growth below the country’s potential. In the
Philippines, the Mindanao conflict and political uncertainties
adversely affected the economy.

Overall, GDP growth was supported by growing exports
and an upturn in fixed investment and consumption. Exports
enjoyed impressive growth in Indonesia, Malaysia, Thailand,
and Viet Nam, which in turn led to buoyant imports. This
caused the current account balances, as a percent of GDP,
to deteriorate in all countries in 2000. The continuing current
account surpluses, coupled with increased receipts of official
capital flows over the last two to three years, greatly
strengthened the external reserve position of some countries.
Indonesia saw a much stabilized rate of inflation in 2000,
although it remained high compared with some neighboring
economies. Consumer prices rose by 4.4 percent in the
Philippines because of the persistent fiscal deficit and increased
oil prices. Inflation in other countries remained relatively stable.

Unemployment rates remained much higher than in
the precrisis period in most countries, while progress in
poverty reduction was mixed. Poverty incidence in
Indonesia, which rose dramatically from 11 percent in 1996
to 24 percent in 1998, decreased in 1999. However, in
Thailand, poverty incidence increased from 12.9 percent in
1998 to 15.9 percent in 1999. Because the current economic
recovery is not strong enough to reduce poverty in all
countries, except for Malaysia, economic growth needs to
be accelerated and made more broad-based, and social
assistance schemes strengthened. Creating job opportunities
in the rural and agriculture sectors and labor-intensive small
enterprises is of paramount importance in this context.
Diffusion of information and communication technology is
also needed to avoid a possible digital divide in most
economies in Southeast Asia.

Regional conflicts in Indonesia need to be addressed
urgently to improve investor confidence and to facilitate
domestic economic activity and international trade.
Expediting financial and corporate restructuring is likewise
critical in Indonesia and Thailand. In the transitional
economies—Cambodia, Lao People’s Democratic Republic,
and Viet Nam—broadening the industrial base, reducing
poverty, and boosting outward-oriented growth are vital to
sustaining growth. Reducing poverty and raising socioeconomic welfare require a dynamic industry sector and a more
productive agriculture sector for exports and jobs.

Cambodia

Economic performance

Economic growth: Real GDP growth was 4.5 percent in
2000. The slowdown in growth relative to the previous year
was a consequence of the adverse effects of the worst floods
in 70 years on agriculture, which offset a robust expansion
of industry and services. Double-digit growth of real
industrial value added resulted from a continued rapid
expansion of textile exports to Europe, Japan, and US. The
gradually improving political climate strengthened locally
financed investment and further expanded construction
activities. The services sector expanded partly because of
increasing domestic consumer confidence and also because
of the rising popularity of the Angkor complex, which
fueled swift growth in tourism. The floods cost the country
about $150 million, equivalent to 5 percent of GDP. The
rural sector was especially hard hit, with 400,000 hectares
of rice cultivation lost. In 2000, timber production
accounted for a declining share in Cambodia's economy
as the export of timber products was curbed by stricter
environmental laws and the country’s move to encourage
more value-added exports.

Employment: Unemployment rates remain low at
6 percent, although it is estimated that 46 percent of the
population work as unpaid family laborers. The real wages
of unskilled laborers are estimated to have fallen from
5 percent to 10 percent between 1997 and 1999.

Inflation: Average annual consumer price inflation
was about -0.8 percent in 2000, down from 4.0 percent in
1999. The impact of rising fuel prices and housing costs
was offset by falling prices of food items. The riel was fairly
stable, depreciating by only about | percent against the US
dollar in 2000. Although total liquidity rose by over
20 percent in 2000, the velocity of money fell, preventing
the expansion from becoming inflationary. Double-digit
growth in both foreign currency deposits and private sector
credit indicated increased confidence in the economy.

Fiscal balance: In FY2000 (ending 31 December), the
Government generated public saving equivalent to
1.7 percent of the GDP. Revenues (excluding grants)
increased marginally from 11.5 percent of GDP in FY1999
to 11.6 percent in FY2000, while total expenditures increased
from 15.9 percent of GDP to 17.2 percent. While the budget
deficit increased from 4.4 percent to 5.6 percent of GDP in
FY2000, foreign financing was more than sufficient to cover
this gap, and total domestic debt decreased.

External sector: Exports (excluding reexports) surged
to $980 million in 2000, compared with $710 million in 1999.Textile exports continued to grow rapidly, while exports of
imber and rubber declined as a result of new forestry
reforms. Imports during the same period grew from
940 million to $1.2 billion, leading to a small increase in
he trade deficit. Transfers, foreign direct investment, and
official loans were more than adequate to cover the current
account deficit and to increase gross official reserves from
422 million in 1999 to $490 million in 2000.

Domestic policies: In 2000, the Government continued
o implement policies for strengthening macroeconomic
management and economic governance. Fiscal policy
reforms focused on strengthening revenue collections and
improving budget execution. In the financial sector, the
ational Bank of Cambodia launched a structural reform
hat included cancelling licenses of nonviable banks. In the
external sector, the Government focused on ensuring
compliance with the ASEAN Free Trade Area and on
ursuing efforts necessary for eventual membership in the
World Trade Organization.

 

ADB operations

Operational strategy: ADB's operational strategy for
Cambodia focuses on economic growth and poverty
reduction, in line with the Government’s own priorities.
Three priority areas have been identified. First, to support
broad-based economic development of rural areas, ADB will
lead in facilitating water resource management, while
supporting rural development, critical wetlands protection,
and agriculture sector reform. Second, to assist human and
social development, ADB will facilitate a sector approach
in education and provide complementary support in health
and water supply. Third, to bolster private sector development, ADB will support the development of the nation’s road
network, while taking a key role in the financial sector and
a supportive role in energy. In addition, ADB will provide
strategic support to governance in economic planning,
public finance management, and legal reform.

Policy dialogue: Policy dialogue with the Government
continued on land management, public financial management, and financial sector reform. The consultative group
of funding agencies focused on regular policy dialogue with
the Government in forestry management, public administration reform, demobilizing military personnel, social sector
development, and legal and judicial reform.

Loans and technical assistance: In 2000, ADB
approved four loan projects totaling $109.6 million: Rural
Credit and Savings, Stung Chinit Irrigation and Rural
Infrastructure, Provincial Power Supply, and Emergency
Flood Rehabilitation. ADB also approved nine technical

 

Regional and Country Highlights 77

eee eee eee eee ee ee

assistance grants totaling $4.4 million: three for project
preparation, and six for capacity building.

Project implementation: Since joining ADB in 1966,
Cambodia has received 17 loans, of which 13 were active
at the end of 2000. Contract awards totaled $114.4 million,
bringing the cumulative figure to $288.2 million. The
contract award ratio was 56.2 percent, higher than the
ADB-wide average of 21 percent. Disbursements during the
year totaled $50.8 million, bringing cumulative disbursements to $203.1 million. The disbursement ratio was
19.1 percent, lower than the ADB-wide average of
20.5 percent.

Overall, portfolio implementation in Cambodia
improved in 2000, compared with 1999. However, the 2000
country portfolio review found that, while improvements
were evident for many of the points in the action plan, only
partial compliance had been achieved for some, most

Cambodia
Cumulative ADB Lending
(as of 31 December 2000)

Sector No. of Loans $ Million 7
Transport and
Communications 3° 123.0 25.3
Multisector 2 122.7 2533
Social Infrastructure 5 100.0 20.6
Agriculture and
Natural Resources 4 91.1 18.8
Energy 3 48.5 10.0
Total 17 485.3 100.0

 

a Includes Cambodia loan component for the Greater Mekong Subregion: Phnom
Penh-Ho Chi Minh City Highway Project amounting to $40 million.

Cambodia
Lending and Disbursements, 1996-2000
($ million)
0 25 50 75 100 125
2000
1999
1998
1997
1996
Ml Lending

Hl Disbursements78 ANNUAL REPORT 2000

Poeeceseseseereeesreeesreercecee eee eee eeeneee®

notably in increasing delegation of authority for contract
awards, disbursement approvals, and contract variation
approvals. In this regard, further delegation of approval
authority in line ministries would facilitate more efficient
project implementation. To eliminate front-end delays to
projects, the Government has agreed to improve the
implementation readiness of new projects.

In 2000, the Cambodia Resident Mission recruited
additional staff members, allowing it to take a greater role
in project administration.

Indonesia

Economic performance

Economic growth: Indonesia achieved modest growth in
2000, with GDP rising by 4.8 percent, signaling the end of
the sharp recession of 1998 in which GDP contracted by
13.1 percent and 0.8 percent growth occurred in 1999. This
turnaround was mainly brought about by a rise in exports.
Imports also recovered, but at a pace that was only about
half of exports. In contrast to surging exports, domestic
spending by businesses, households, and the public sector
rose only moderately. Investment spending rose from a very
low base, but has yet to demonstrate a broad-based
recovery. Household income recovered from the recent
recession, but weak demand for labor still restrained spending.

Employment: Indonesia has a relatively flexible labor
market and even during the financial crisis, on an annual basis,
the number of people reported working increased. Changes
in aggregate economic activity, even severe changes, are
reflected in real wage rates rather than in aggregate
employment. Thus, preliminary estimates for 2000 suggest that
modest GDP growth encouraged only a small increase in
aggregate employment—up roughly 2 percent from 1999.

Inflation: During 2000, consumer price inflation
registered 3.8 percent, considerably lower than the
20.7 percent rate in 1999. Price increases were larger than
targeted, especially during the second half of 2000 when
renewed weakness in the rupiah led to upward inflationary
pressure. In addition, higher fuel costs, resulting from the
Government's program of reducing subsidies, also led to
price increases in the second half of the year.

Fiscal balance: Budgeted spending (including transfers
to local governments) in FY2000'° was projected to increase

relative to the previous fiscal year by slightly more than
one percentage point to 21.6 percent of GDP. Against this,
revenues were budgeted to increase by only about one-half
percentage point. The overall budget deficit was thus
projected to reach 4.8 percent of GDP in FY2000, up from
4 percent during the preceding fiscal year.

The largest single element in the expenditure budget
is domestic interest payments, at 4.2 percent of GDP. Interest
payments on external debts are less than half the domestic
debt burden.

External sector: Exports in 2000 were a significant
factor in restoring economic growth. Most of the increase
in exports occurred in non-oil and gas products, electrical
equipment, textiles, and some natural resource products,
particularly aluminum and nickel. Imports were led by raw
material purchases. Capital goods imports have yet to
recover, indicating lack of widespread investment spending.
Overall, the current account showed a surplus of $7.8 billion
or 5.1 percent of GDP in 2000. The inflow of funds from
exports was partially offset by continued capital outflow—
both net negative foreign direct investment and outflows
of portfolio capital.

Domestic policies: In 2000, the Indonesian Parliament
sponsored a national debate that led to the adoption of a
medium-term development strategy. The strategy sets out
five broad national objectives: (i) ensuring national cohesion
and social stability; (ii) achieving good governance and rule
of law; (iii) accelerating economic recovery and strengthening the foundations of sustained growth; (iv) developing
the social sectors and human welfare; and (v) strengthening
regional autonomy, rural and urban development, and
structural poverty programs.

In 2000, published reports suggested that as many as
one million people had been displaced because of violence
or threats of violence. The peace and order situation has
been a major factor in discouraging investment, both
domestic and foreign.

The focus on improving good governance is a result of
the crisis since in many respects the weakest link in Indonesia's
past development strategy was governance. The Government's
strategy includes an anticorruption program; administrative
and fiscal decentralization; improved public financial management; civil service reforms; dismantling state monopolies;
and further deregulating trade, finance, industry, and investment. The Government also attaches high priority to widening
the scope for market-based economic decision making.

10 Fiscal year (FY)2000 was | April-31 December 2000. The nine-month year was a transition between the 12-month year that is supposed to
end on 31 March and FY2001, which corresponds to the calendar year. Comparisons between fiscal years are thus complicated by different monthly
patterns in addition to structural changes in budget procedures. Analysis of FY2000 used GDP estimates for the relevant nine-month period.Although access to social services has generally
improved, the quality of services has not matched needs,
especially as Indonesians face an increasingly open
international market.

Next to debt service, subsidies are the largest item in
central government spending, accounting for 3-4 percent
of GDP. The largest subsidy is for petroleum products and
smaller subsidies exist for food and electricity. In an effort
to reduce subsidies, fuel prices were raised in October 2000;
however, this met considerable political opposition.

The economic crisis resulted in a transfer of financial
assets to the public sector, reflecting recapitalization of the
banking subsector. The next steps involve asset sales or
privatization to provide revenues that will offset the large
public debt and increase the scope for private sector
development. Toward the end of 2000, the Government asset
management agency, the Indonesian Bank Restructuring
Agency, had successfully met its 2000 targets mainly through
a series of large sales to foreign investors.

In 2000, the Government issued regulations for
implementing decentralization laws passed in 1999. These
programs will transfer major administrative and fiscal
responsibilities to local governments, largely at the district
level, to meet local needs.

ADB operations

Operational strategy: ADB's operational strategy for
Indonesia was completed in 2000. The strategy focuses
principally on reducing poverty and regional inequities. The
strategy recognizes the need for considerably improved
governance and encourages sustainable recovery and
pro-poor growth by enabling private sector development;
improving regional equity through balanced regional
development; promoting human and social development;
and mainstreaming environmental management to ensure
sustainable use of natural resources.

Policy dialogue: Policy dialogue with the Government
occurred in forums such as the Consultative Group for
Indonesia, the Governance Partnership meetings, and in
discussions on program loan implementation.

ADB assisted the Government in drafting regulations
on decentralization under the Community and Local
Government Support Sector Development Program.

Dialogue on the financial sector focused on pending
reforms in financial and corporate governance, including
greater accountability of company directors and auditors
and introduction of a law to prevent money laundering.
Financial sector supervision and regulation were also
discussed, including issues relating to the nonbank financial

Regional and Country Highlights 79

eee eee eee eee ee ee

Indonesia
Cumulative ADB Lending
(as of 31 December 2000)

 

 

Sector No. of Loans $ Million ot
Social Infrastructure 64 4,399.1 24.7
Agriculture and
Natural Resources 96 3,856.7 21.6
Energy 28 3,130.0 17.5
Transport and
Communications 31 2,544.9 14.3
Finance 10 2,437.0 13:7:
Multisector 7 689.0 3.9
Industry and
Nonfuel Minerals 14 631.7 3.5
Others 4 140.6 0.8
Total 254 17,829.0 100.0
Indonesia
Lending and Disbursements, 1996-2000
($ million)
0 400 800 1,200 1,600 2,000
°
2000
1999
1998
1997
1996
Ml Lending

Hl Disbursements

sector and an appropriate policy environment for small and
medium enterprise (SME) development.
Reforms in the power subsector have been stalled pending
the promulgation of the new Electricity Law. Restructuring
Perusahaan Listrik Negara (the national electric board), which
is essential for developing a more efficient and competitive
market for electricity, has also been delayed.
Loans and technical assistance: In 2000, ADB
approved seven loans totaling $800.0 million, including one
program loan. The loans were for SME development, rural
development, road rehabilitation, environmental protection,
higher education, and decentralized health services. A
project to assist girl street children in Yogyakarta received
a grant from the Japan Fund for Poverty Reduction. ADB
also approved 16 technical assistance grants totaling
$13.4 million, 4 of which were for project preparation.80 ANNUAL REPORT 2000

Poeeceseseseereeesreeesreercecee eee eee eeeneee®

Project implementation: Since joining ADB in 1966,
Indonesia has received 254 loans, of which 74 were active
at the end of 2000. Contract awards totaled $707.3 million,
bringing the cumulative total to $10.7 billion. The contract
award ratio was 20.3 percent, lower than the ADB-wide
average of 21 percent. Disbursements during the year totaled
$748.4 million, bringing cumulative disbursements to
$11.4 billion. The disbursement ratio was 18.5 percent, lower
than the ADB-wide average of 20.5 percent.

The 2000 country portfolio review highlighted both
project-specific and countrywide issues that inhibited implementation: insufficient government counterpart funds, delays
in disbursements because of slow approval of withdrawal
applications by the Government and ADB, slow approval of
contract awards, and uncertainties surrounding the changes
in Cabinet and the decentralization laws. Agreements have
been reached on ways to handle these issues on a projectspecific basis, and as a coordinated government response.

The ADB crisis-related program loan package provided
considerable budgetary support to the Government,
particularly in maintaining vital social sector expenditures.
In 2000, program loan tranches totaling $270 million were
released. An important achievement was facilitating critical
implementing regulations under laws on decentralization.

The Indonesia Resident Mission (IRM) continued to play
a significant role in project administration, with 20 ongoing
loans assigned to it for administration. Following delegation
of more responsibilities under the Resident Mission Policy,
IRM is expected to focus more prominently on improving
portfolio performance, and is expected to have a more effective
role in policy dialogue. To address a critical issue, such as the
lack of counterpart funds, ADB agreed to increase its share
in financing project cost to 80 percent during the first three
years of implementation for projects approved in 2000.

Lao People’s Democratic Republic

Economic performance

Economic growth: In 2000, real economic growth
increased to 5.5 percent, compared with 5.2 percent in 1999
and 4.0 percent in 1998, supported by a more stable macroeconomic environment and strong agricultural production.
Agricultural production accounted for about half of GDP.
Growth in the industry sector was 7.3 percent in 2000,
compared with 7.5 percent in 1999. Moderate growth of
7.2 percent was achieved in manufacturing, which accounts
for over 75 percent of the industry sector. Despite a weak
banking subsector, growth of 6.4 percent in aggregate

services was achieved on the strength of the tourism and
real estate subsectors.

Employment: The official unemployment rate for 2000
stood at 4.3 percent. Forty-five percent of the population
is currently below 15 years of age; the labor force in the
Lao PDR is estimated at 1 million to 1.5 million in 2000.
Traditional agriculture practices still dominate the economy
and currently more than 80 percent of the population is
involved in agriculture.

Inflation: Since the second half of 1999, a tight monetary
policy has been maintained, which included strict control of
central bank credit to the Government, banks, and enterprises,
as well as prudent lending by commercial banks. Broad money
(M2) grew by 120 percent during the first half of 1999, but
then contracted by almost 20 percent during the second half
of the year. In 2000, M2 grew by about 36 percent. As a
result, the annual inflation rate, as measured by the
consumer price index, declined from 128.4 percent in 1999
to 23.2 percent in 2000. The exchange rate has been stable
at around 7,500-8,000 kip per US dollar since October 1999.

Fiscal balance: The overall budget deficit was reduce
to 8.1 percent of GDP in 2000 from 10.5 percent of GDP in
1999, financed by foreign grants and external loan disbursements. Total revenue collections in 2000 have increased to
13.6 percent of GDP from 12.2 percent in 1999. Governmen
expenditure was reduced from 22.7 percent of GDP in 1999
to 21.7 percent in 2000. The shares in GDP of capita
expenditure and current expenditures were 13 percent an
8.7 percent, respectively. Current expenditures are a
substantially low levels because of the continued fisca
squeeze of the past several years. Wages and salaries 0}
government workers and maintenance expenditures have
fallen significantly in real terms.

External sector: Exports to the Greater Mekong
Subregion (GMS) accounted for about 65 percent of tota
exports, of which 40 percent went to Viet Nam and more
than 20 percent to Thailand. In turn, most imports were
from the GMS, especially from Thailand. Total exports in
2000 amounted to $331 million, representing an increase
of 8.3 percent compared with the previous year. Total
imports amounted to $591 million, representing an increase
of 6.6 percent relative to 1999. The trade deficit declined
from 13.1 percent of GDP in 1999 to 12.0 percent in 2000.
Foreign direct investment (FDI) and official development
assistance (ODA) increased from $139 million in 1999 to
$249 million in 2000; ODA—both bilateral and multilateral—
amounted to about 80 percent of total investment inflows.
In 2000, official foreign exchange reserves increased to
around $130 million, equivalent to 2.5 months of imports.
To strengthen its reserve position, the Governmenttransferred revenues from timber royalties directly to its
foreign exchange reserve account in 2000. An interbank
foreign exchange market was established. Debt service was
around $54 million in 2000, equivalent to 11.3 percent of
exports of goods and nonfactor services.

Domestic policies: The Government’s efforts to
restrain monetary expansion have contributed to economic
stabilization. Fiscal reforms and ways to encourage saving
are currently being discussed in conjunction with a possible
new IMF Poverty Reduction Growth Facility and an ADB
financial sector program loan. The current system of
economic management continued to improve. The
Government introduced economic reforms to realize the
potential competitiveness of the Lao economy. The focus
is on formulating policy reforms, implementing them, and
appropriating the resources required for their implementation. The Government recognized that the private sector
is critical to achieving sustainable economic growth and
poverty reduction.

ADB operations

Operational strategy: ADB's new operational strategy for
the Lao PDR will be formulated in 2001, and will fully reflect
the Government's socioeconomic plan for 2001-2005. The
main strategic focus will be on agriculture and rural
development, sustainable natural resource management,
and human resource development. Governance and private
sector development will be important components.

The lending and technical assistance program in 2000
focused increasingly on efforts to reduce poverty. Activities
included direct poverty interventions and continued to
promote economic growth projects with a high impact on
poverty reduction.

Lao People’s Democratic Republic
Cumulative ADB Lending
(as of 31 December 2000)

 

Sector No. of Loans $ Million 7
Transport and
Communications 112 304.0 34.2
Energy 13 223.3 25.2
Social Infrastructure 12 183.4 20.7
Agriculture and
Natural Resources 1 126.8 14.3
Finance 2 50.0 5.6
Total 49 887.5 100.0

 

a Includes Lao PDR loan component for the Greater Mekong Subregion: East-West
Corridor amounting to $32 million.

Regional and Country Highlights 81

eee eee eee eee ee ee

Policy dialogue: Policy dialogue with the Government
dealt with developing national and regional poverty
benchmarks and establishing a poverty monitoring system.
To this end, ADB undertook a joint participatory poverty
assessment with the Government and the World Bank to
identify the nature and root causes of poverty in the Lao PDR.
Dialogue also centered on fiscal management, financial sector
reform, private sector development, and environmental
management. A policy-based loan in support of financial
sector reform was successfully completed in 2000, and a
follow-up policy-based loan is planned. ADB also assisted
the Government in formulating the medium-term expenditure framework with the public investment program for
2001-2003. ADB will conduct the public expenditure
review—together with the Government, IMF, and the World
Bank—to ensure that public expenditures appropriately
incorporate the Government's strategy for reducing poverty.

Loans and technical assistance: In 2000, ADB
approved three loans totaling $60.5 million: Primary Health
Care Expansion Project; Decentralized Irrigation Development and Management Sector Project; and Rural Access
Roads Project. ADB also approved 13 technical assistance
grants totaling $7.6 million.

Project implementation: Since joining ADB in 1966,
the Lao PDR has received 49 loans, of which 20 were active
at the end of 2000. Contract awards totaled $43.5 million,
bringing the cumulative figure to $665.6 million. The contract
award ratio was 24.5 percent, higher than the ADB-wide
average of 21 percent. Disbursements during the year totaled
$51.0 million, bringing cumulative disbursements to
$615.6 million. The disbursement ratio was 21.3 percent,
higher than the ADB-wide average of 20.5 percent.

A country portfolio review in 2000 found that the overall
portfolio performance was generally satisfactory. After the

 

Lao People’s Democratic Republic

Lending and Disbursements, 1996-2000

($ million)

0 25 50 75 100 125

2000
1999
1998
1997

1996

Ml Lending
I Disbursements82 ANNUAL REPORT 2000

Poeeceseseseereeesreeesreercecee eee eee eeeneee®

1999 review, the Government had addressed key issues for
improving project implementation, such as clarifying
procurement procedures and allocating appropriate
counterpart funds. Portfolio performance could be further
improved. A time-bound action plan, agreed between the
Government and ADB during the 2000 review, includes
measures for establishing effective monitoring systems for
contract awards, submission of audited financial statements,
and compliance of loan covenants; strengthening procurement coordination by the Ministry of Finance; improving
budget preparation and allocation procedures; and
simplifying fund-flow mechanisms and disbursement
procedures. Implementation of the plan will be closely
monitored through quarterly project review meetings
between the Government and the Lao Resident Mission.

Malaysia

Economic performance

Economic growth: GDP growth in Malaysia during 2000
is estimated by the Government at 8.5 percent, as a result
of robust external demand for manufactured goods, buoyant
consumer demand, and a recovery in gross fixed investment.
Reflecting a strong fiscal stimulus in 2000, public investment
is projected to rise by 14.5 percent, compared with
7.9 percent in 1999. Growth in private investment is also
projected to have rebounded to 27.2 percent. Private
consumption demand remained at relatively high levels
because of improved consumer confidence, resulting from
a recovery-induced increase in disposable income and low
interest rates. On the supply side, higher growth led by the
manufacturing subsector was followed by a rebound in the
services sector because of the overall improvement in
economic performance. Construction activity grew
moderately. Agriculture sector output grew marginally, as
moderate growth in crude palm oil production and sawlogs
was offset by a decline in rubber output.

Employment: The continuing recovery led to a decline
in the unemployment rate to 2.9 percent of the labor force
in 2000, from 3.0 percent in 1999. Reflecting a higher level
of economic activity, the number of job vacancies in 2000
increased by 14 percent relative to 1999, whereas the
number of workers retrenched declined by 32.4 percent.
Although real wages increased by an estimated 12.9 percent
during the year, this was more than offset by an increase
in real labor productivity of 22.7 percent.

Inflation: After averaging 2.8 percent in 1999,
consumer price inflation decreased steadily during 2000 to

average 1.6 percent. Despite an increase in inflation during
the fourth quarter of 2000 because of higher energy prices
and bus fares, overall inflation during the year was kept
subdued by moderate food price increases, minimal
imported inflation, and persistent excess capacity in some
sectors of the economy.

Fiscal balance: During 2000, the Government pursued
expansionary fiscal and monetary policies to consolidate
and extend the economic recovery. The fiscal deficit for 2000
is officially estimated at Malaysian dollar (M$)18 billion, or
5.5 percent of GDP, representing a large increase over the
previous year’s actual deficit of M$9.5 billion (3.2 percent
of GDP).

External sector: The trade account is estimated to
register a surplus of $19.6 billion in 2000, lower than the
surplus of $22.8 billion recorded in 1999, as import growth

Malaysia
Cumulative ADB Lending
(as of 31 December 2000)

 

Sector No. of Loans $ Million %
Social Infrastructure 21 750.6 37.8
Agriculture and
Natural Resources 26 566.0 28.5
Energy 11 321.5 16.2
Transport and
Communications 15 25571 12.8
Industry and
Nonfuel Minerals 1 53.0 27
Others 1 26.3 1.3
Finance 1 15.0 0.7
Total 76 1,987.5 100.0
Malaysia
Lending and Disbursements, 1996-2000
($ million)
G 20 40 60 80 100
2000
1999
1998
1997
1996
Ml Lending

Hl Disbursementsoutpaced export growth. The services account is, however,
estimated to record a larger deficit, owing to Malaysia’s
dependence on trade-related service imports and increased
outflows of profits and dividend payments from an improving
Malaysian economy. These developments have led to a fall
in the current account surplus from 15.9 percent of GDP
in 1999 to an estimated 8.8 percent of GDP in 2000. A
smaller current account surplus and a deficit in the overall
capital account led to a decline in external reserves to
$29.9 billion (or 4.5 months of imports) as of end-2000,
compared with $30.8 billion as of end-1999. Malaysia’s
external debt position improved during the first nine
months of 2000 because of higher repayments of shortterm debt. The debt service ratio decreased correspondingly
from 4.8 percent at the end of 1999 to 4.2 percent at
end-September 2000.

Domestic policies: With inflationary pressures
remaining subdued, the Government continued with its
accommodative monetary policy stance, maintaining low
interest rates and its fixed exchange rate regime. Total loans
outstanding in the banking system at end-2000 amounted
to M$453 billion, an increase of 5.2 percent relative to the
end-1999 level of M$429.7 billion. During the year,
substantial progress was made in merging the country’s
domestic banks to achieve a more effective and competitive
banking system.

ADB operations

Operational strategy: ADB's operational strategy for
Malaysia was approved before the Asian financial crisis in
1997, and is therefore no longer relevant. In the short term,
the Government and ADB might envisage a lighter
assistance program for Malaysia, which would include ADB's
goal of reducing poverty and strengthening regional
cooperation.

Policy dialogue: New areas of policy dialogue are
expected in line with the objectives and scope of the assistance
program to which the Government and ADB agree.

Loans and technical assistance: No loans or
technical assistance grants were approved in 2000.

Project implementation: Since becoming a member
of ADB in 1966, Malaysia has received 76 loans, of which
5 were active at the end of 2000. Contract awards totaled
$24.5 million, bringing the cumulative figure to $1.4 billion.
The contract award ratio was 24.6 percent, higher than the
ADB-wide average of 21 percent. Disbursements during the
year totaled $48.7 million, bringing cumulative disbursements
to $1.4 billion. The disbursement ratio was 29.9 percent,
higher than the ADB-wide average of 20.5 percent.

Regional and Country Highlights 83

eee eee eee eee ee ee

Myanmar

Economic performance

Economic growth: Myanmar's growth rates have improved
in recent years. According to official data, GDP grew by
5.8 percent in FY1998 (ending 31 March 1998), and is
reported to have risen by 10.9 percent in FY1999 primarily
because of favorable weather and an increase in land area
under cultivation. However, Myanmar still faces structural
problems that prevent the economy from achieving a higher
level of socioeconomic development. These include a
continuous fiscal deficit, inefficient management of state
economic enterprises (SEEs), weak external performance,
and a dual exchange rate system.

Employment: Official data indicate that in FY1997, the
labor force consisted of about 22.5 million, 14.2 million of
whom were employed, implying an unemployment rate of
4.1 percent. The agriculture sector is the largest employer,
accounting for 56.5 percent of the labor force. This is followed
by trade, hotels and restaurants, and manufacturing.

Inflation: The inflation rate rose to around 30-50 percent in FY1997 and FY1998 because of the Asian financial
crisis, as well as budget deficits and expansionary monetary
policy. However, the inflation rate dropped to about
11 percent in FY1999, and is estimated to have fallen
throughout FY2000, largely because of the increase in
agricultural production and the introduction of treasury bills
and bonds as a means for financing the fiscal deficit.

Fiscal balance: Government revenues as a percentage
of GDP declined from 7.2 percent in FY1998 to 4.9 percent
in FY1999 because of a slow increase in tax receipts.
Expenditures as a percentage of GDP declined from
6.9 percent in FY1998 to 5.8 percent in FY1999, with the
GDP ratio of capital expenditures declining faster than that
of current expenditures. The government budget registered
a substantial deficit of kyats (MK)20.2 billion in FY1999. The
SEEs’ deficit almost doubled from MK47.5 billion in FY1997
to MK85.9 billion in FY1998, but declined to MK71.4 billion
in FY1999. Combining the government and SEE deficits, the
consolidated budget deficit for FY1999 amounted to
MK110.5 billion or 5.0 percent of GDP.

External sector: Despite restrictions on imports, weak
export performance has kept the trade deficit high. With a
reduction in imports, and a surplus in the services and
transfers accounts, the current account deficit has been
decreasing. Foreign reserves continued to be inadequate,
covering only about 1.6 months of imports.

Domestic policies: The most critical policy issue
continued to be the dual exchange rate system. The foreign84 ANNUAL REPORT 2000

Poeeceseseseereeesreeesreercecee eee eee eeeneee®

Myanmar
Cumulative ADB Lending
(as of 31 December 2000)

Sector No. of Loans $ Million %

Agriculture and

Natural Resources 15 316.1 59.5
Social Infrastructure 6 99.1 18.7
Transport and

Communications 2 42.5 8.0
Energy 5 31.8 6.0
Industry and

Nonfuel Minerals 2 21.4 4.0
Finance 2 20.0 3.8
Total 32 530.9 100.0

exchange value of domestic currency has fallen sharply since
the second half of 1998, making it more difficult for the
country to reform the exchange rate system. The second
most important policy issue is the recurrent large fiscal
deficit resulting from a small tax base. Despite a significant
reduction in government expenditures, the nonfinancial
public sector deficit remains high. This used to be financed
by the central bank credit, which contributed to inflationary
pressure; however, treasury bills and bonds are now
increasingly used to finance the public sector deficit.

ADB operations

Operational strategy: ADB continued to monitor economic
developments in Myanmar. An operational strategy will be
formulated when appropriate.

Loans and technical assistance: No loans have been
provided to Myanmar since 1986 and no technical assistance
since 1987.

Project implementation: All 32 loans, which were
approved before 1986, were closed by the end of 1998.
However, Myanmar is involved in ADB's regional cooperation initiative for the Greater Mekong Subregion,
participating in regional meetings and workshops supported
by ADB's regional technical assistance.

Philippines
Economic performance
Economic growth: The economy registered GDP growth

of 3.9 percent in 2000, continuing the recovery staged in
1999. The agriculture sector grew by 3.4 percent, the services

sector by 4.4 percent, and the industry sector by 3.6 percent.
The contraction in investment appeared to have bottomed
out in 2000, as gross domestic capital formation grew by
0.8 percent in the face of stronger investment in durable
equipment. Meanwhile, the corporate sector has not
recovered fully from the crisis as indicated by the continued
high rate of nonperforming loans in the banking system,
which rose from about 12.3 percent in 1999 to 16.2 percent
by the end of November 2000.

Escalation of the conflict in Mindanao had an adverse
impact on investor perceptions and the Government's ability
to implement planned development initiatives, further
slowing growth. The recovery was also affected by slow
progress in key reforms initiated by the Government.

Employment: The unemployment rate rose from
9.3 percent at the beginning of 2000 to 10.1 percent in
October. On an annual basis, however, unemployment was
higher at 11.1 percent in 2000, compared with 9.7 percent
in 1999. With the development of rural productivity interventions, the agriculture sector is expected to absorb a
significant portion of the growing labor force and to decrease
the current unemployment rate, especially in the rural areas.

Inflation: The inflation rate declined to about
3.0 percent in early 2000. Sufficient supplies of basic food
stocks arising from positive agriculture sector performance
in 1999 and prudent monetary management are responsible for holding inflation in check. The average consumer
price inflation rate for 2000 was 4.4 percent, lower than the
Government's target of 5.0-6.0 percent. Inflation increased
in the latter part of 2000 because of the rise in world oil
prices, depreciation of the peso, and adjustments in wages.

Fiscal balances: The Government's fiscal deficit of
136.1 billion pesos (P) for 2000 has surpassed the targeted
deficit of P62.5 billion for the year. This is attributed to lowerthan-projected tax revenue collection and privatization
proceeds. Revenue collection was 11.8 percent lower than
the target, while the privatization proceeds were
22.3 percent of the target for 2000.

The two-year standby arrangement with the International Monetary Fund (IMF) was extended to December
2000. However, during the October 2000 IMF Review
Mission, the standby arrangement was allowed to lapse.
Currently, the Government is looking at the possibility of
entering into an IMF postprogram monitoring framework.

External sector: Notwithstanding the strong performance of the current account, the balance-of-payments
position weakened in January-October 2000 because of
higher net outflows in the financial account. As a result,
gross international reserves declined although minimally
by 0.54 percent to $15.0 billion by December 2000. The rateof export growth, which had been robust throughout the
crisis, was 8.7 percent in 2000. Growth slowed significantly
in the first quarter and recovered to 13.3 percent in the
second quarter of 2000; and despite a drop in overseas
remittances, a current account surplus of about $8.1 billion
was achieved in 2000. The external debt to GDP ratio as of
end-September 2000 declined to 63.8 percent from
69.0 percent for the comparable period in 1999 despite the
peso depreciation.

Domestic policies: The highest priorities of the
Government are to improve macroeconomic stability;
consolidate fiscal management by improving tax collections,
expediting the privatization process, rationalizing
expenditures, and improving cash management, promote
good governance in the public, financial, and corporate
sectors; accelerate structural reforms for improving stability,
promoting private sector participation, and enhancing
competition; accelerate rural development; and improve
access to social services.

The Government's renewed attempts to accelerate structural reforms have begun to show results. The amendments
to the General Banking Act will considerably strengthen the
central bank's supervisory authority, strengthen prudential
regulations, and promote transparency and good governance.
Liberalizing foreign participation in banks is expected to enhance competition in banking. The Security Regulation Code,
which was passed in July, will increase transparency and
strengthen regulation in the capital market. The Omnibus
Power Sector Reform Bill was in the final stages of deliberation in Congress. While preparations on privatizing the

National Power

Corporation

have begun,

legislation

has yet to

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
  
 

Regional and Country Highlights 85

be enacted, and measures for strengthening its financial
position prior to privatization are still pending. Restructuring of government corporations such as the National
Food Authority and the Philippine National Railways is
also ongoing.

Several laws for promoting competition and creating
an investor-friendly environment are in process: the Retail
Trade Liberalization Act liberalizes foreign ownership of
retail enterprises; the E-commerce law provides a basis for
Internet-based transactions; and the Regional
Headquarters law grants additional incentives to multinational corporations for establishing regional
headquarters in the Philippines.

ADB operations

Operational strategy: ADB's operational strategy for the
Philippines addresses priorities arising from the Asian
financial crisis and emphasizes poverty reduction and social
development through three main objectives: promoting
equitable growth; improving basic social services, including
health and education; and improving management and
protection of the environment.

Policy dialogue: Policy dialogue with the Government
included improving the performance and financial health
of the National Power Corporation and restructuring the
electricity subsector; restructuring the National Food
Authority through the Grains Sector Development
Program; improving the urban environment through the
Pasig River Environmental Management and Rehabilitation Sector Development Program; and improving air
quality under the Metro Manila Air Quality Improvement
Sector Development Program.

Loans and technical assistance: In 2000, ADB
approved seven public sector loans (two of which are
program loans) totaling $470.0 million. In its private sector
operations, ADB approved a $45.0 million (plus a $25.0 million commercial loan under an ADB complementary finance
scheme)—jointly financed as part of a debt package with
other international finance institutions—for upgrading and
operating the North Luzon Expressway. ADB also approved
12 technical assistance grants totaling $6.4 million to help
the Government strengthen its capacity,
particularly in the areas of procurement, local
government planning and financing, and project
monitoring and auditing.

eee cceeeseee

Southeast Asian countries affected by

the financial crisis registered positive
growth rates in 2000.86 ANNUAL REPORT 2000

Poeeceseseseereeesreeesreercecee eee eee eeeneee®

Philippines
Cumulative ADB Lending
(as of 31 December 2000)

 

 

Sector No. of Loans  $ Million %
Energy 27 2,257.6 28.6
Agriculture and

Natural Resources 63 1,920.3 24.3
Social Infrastructure 37 1,380.6 175
Transport and

Communications 26 1,105.9 14.0
Finance 15 598.0 7.6
Others 3 296.0 3.8
Multisector 6 283.7 3.6
Industry and

Nonfuel Minerals 6 47.2 0.6
Total 183 7,889.3 100.0

Philippines

Lending and Disbursements, 1996-2000
($ million)

 

0 200 400 600 800 1,000
°

2000
1999
1998
1997
1996

MS Lending

Hl Disbursements

Three projects were financed under the Japan Fund for
Poverty Reduction: Sustainable Livelihood for the Poor in
Southern Philippines, On-Site Urban Upgrading for

Vulnerable Slum Communities of Payatas, and Off-Site and
Off-City Relocation of Vulnerable Slum Communities of
Muntinlupa City.

Project implementation: Since joining ADB in 1966,
the Philippines has received 183 loans, of which 60 were
active at the end of 2000. Contract awards totaled
$176.6 million, bringing the cumulative figure to $4.6 billion.
The contract award ratio for 2000 was 11.1 percent, lower
than the ADB-wide average of 21 percent. Disbursements
during the year totaled $228.0 million, bringing cumulative
disbursements to $4.9 billion. The disbursement ratio was
11.3 percent, lower than the ADB-wide average of
20.5 percent.

During 2000, the Government achieved several targets
in ADB's 1999 country portfolio review: nearly complete
compliance with loan covenants relating to audited
accounts, resolving the licensing requirements for foreign
contractors, canceling most loan saving that had been
identified, and improving postevaluation ratings of project
performance. Progress in resolving many other issues was
mixed. The project implementation issues identified during
the 2000 review include delays in loan effectivity; slow
recruitment of consultants, and difficulties in complying with
ADB's selection guidelines; slow procurement of goods and
civil works; delayed progress in policy reform issues; and
poor disbursement performance. To help address these
issues, a time-bound action plan was agreed with the
Government, and ADB held joint quarterly portfolio review
meetings with the World Bank, the Japan Bank for
International Cooperation, and the Government, allowing
greater collaboration between the funding agencies and the
key oversight agencies of the Government.

The action plan emphasizes reducing the number of
underperforming projects, accelerating disbursements, and
improving quality control at entry. New initiatives were
instituted to improve project preparedness before loan
approval and to cancel nonperforming loans or loan
components whenever these are detected. In response, the
Government has also taken several important initiatives to
improve portfolio performance.

Loan implementation in the Philippines is expected to
improve over the coming years with the establishment of
the Philippines Country Office (PhCO) in 2000. PhCO will
improve the quality of ADB’s operations in the Philippines;
and strengthen coordination and partnership with the
Government, civil society, and other funding agencies.

Thailand

Economic performance

Economic growth: GDP grew by 5.9 percent during the first
half of 2000, but slowed markedly during the second half.
For the whole year, the GDP growth rate is likely to be
4.2 percent, the same level achieved in 1999. The recovery
during the first half of 2000 was mainly because of strong export
performance, the lagged effects of earlier fiscal stimulus, and
an accommodating monetary policy. The slowdown was
mainly attributable to external and domestic factors, including
the steep rise in world oil prices, the slowdown in the US
economy, and the national election in January 2001. The
manufacturing production index (MPI) increased by0.7 percent in 2000. However, the industry capacity utilization
rate decreased to 55.9 percent in 2000 from 60 percent in 1999.

Employment: The high unemployment rate caused by
he financial crisis eased in 2000. According to the latest
survey, the unemployment rate declined to 3.2 percent (or
1.1 million people) in 2000, from 4.2 percent (or 1.4 million
eople) in 1999.

Inflation: Following a year of historically low inflation

of 0.3 percent in 1999, consumer price inflation increased
y 1.6 percent in 2000, largely because of rising world oil
rices and depreciation of the baht (B) against most major
currencies. However, the core inflation rate, which is the
12-month increase in consumer prices, excluding food and
energy, remained relatively low at 0.7 percent, well within
he Bank of Thailand's inflation target range of 0-3.5 percent
for 2000-2002.
Fiscal balance: The Government maintained an
expansionary fiscal stance to boost domestic demand,
rovide liquidity, and establish a social safety net for
minimizing the impact of the financial crisis on the poor.
For FY2000 (ending 30 September), the government cash
deficit was B116 billion (2.4 percent of GDP), down from
B135 billion (2.9 percent of GDP) in FY1999.

External sector: The external sector continued to be
the main engine of growth, with exports increasing by
19.6 percent and imports by 31.3 percent in 2000. The
current account balance continued to be in surplus at
$10 billion in 2000. International reserves remained at a
comfortable level of $32.7 billion at the end of 2000, or more
than two times the short-term debt, and providing about six
months of import coverage. Total external debt decreased from
$96.3 billion at the end of 1999 to $81.3 billion in November
2000, with the maturity profile shifting toward long-term debt.
The share of short-term debt to total external debt declined
from 52 percent in 1995 to 18 percent in November 2000.

Domestic policies: The Government launched two
economic packages in August and October 2000. The August
package focused on supporting rural and community
development, and the October package aimed at strengthening the economic and social foundation for long-term
sustainable growth. In 2000, overall monetary and liquidity
conditions were supportive of economic recovery. To spur
domestic demand, the Bank of Thailand maintained a low
interest rate policy, keeping the key policy rate (the 14-day
repurchase rate) at 1.5 percent per annum. On an end-ofperiod basis in 2000, the increase in money supply (M2)
and M2A (including finance and security companies) was
3.6 percent and 2.2 percent, respectively, compared with
2.1 percent and 1.3 percent at the end of 1999. With high
liquidity in the money market, interest rates dropped to low

 

Regional and Country Highlights 87

eee eee eee eee ee ee

levels, with the interbank rate reaching 1.7 percent in the
fourth quarter 2000. The prime (minimum lending) rate
declined from 8.2-8.5 percent during the last quarter of 1999
to 7.5-8.2 percent in the same period in 2000. The deposit
rate (one-year fixed deposit) declined from 4.0 to 4.2 percent
in the fourth quarter of 1999 to 3.5 percent in the fourth quarter
of 2000. However, commercial banks remained cautious in
new lending. The growth in commercial bank credit to the
private sector declined by 10.2 percent at the end of 2000.
Financial sector reform is progressing. Nonperforming loans
declined to 18.0 percent of total loans in December 2000 from
a peak of 47.7 percent in May 1999, but remained relatively
large at around B858 billion (about $20 billion).

ADB operations

Operational strategy: ADB's interim operational strategy
for Thailand, which was prepared in May 1999, incorporates major shifts in priorities in response to the financial
crisis. It includes three objectives: (i) reduce poverty and
improve the quality of life, (ii) engage in macroeconomic
structural adjustment, and (iii) strengthen competitiveness
to promote efficient and sustainable growth. All ADB
projects—except those involving national systems—are to
be concentrated in Thailand’s northern, northeastern, and
southern areas. These areas are relatively less developed
and are where the majority of Thailand's population lives,
including most of the target groups living below the poverty
line. This geographic focus will lessen growing disparities
within the country and maximize the impact of the poverty
reduction program. The strategy further suggests that ADB
assistance be focused on the agriculture/rural development,
social (education, health, and social welfare), and financia
sectors. ADB's approach links activities in Thailand with
those in neighboring countries through subregional
economic cooperation initiatives.

Policy dialogue: Policy dialogue with the Governmen|
in 2000 led to an ongoing poverty reduction and socia
protection assessment by the National Economic and Socia
Development Board and ADB. The assessment will include
extensive discussions with stakeholders and facilitate the
poverty reduction efforts of the Government and funding
agencies. The findings will be discussed at a high-leve
forum, after which ADB's strategy and program for Thailand
will be prepared. These activities are also expected to culminate
in a poverty partnership agreement between the Government
and ADB, which will set targets for reducing poverty an
establish mechanisms for monitoring progress.

ADB will target agriculture/rural development ani
education. Technical assistance grants may be provide88 ANNUAL REPORT 2000

Poeeceseseseereeesreeesreercecee eee eee eeeneee®

to support reforms in Thailand’s financial sector,
principally in developing capital markets, restructuring
specialized financial institutions, and improving the
financial framework for small and medium enterprise
development. ADB will also engage the Government and
civil society in promoting governance, decentralization
and multilevel planning, strategic planning, monitoring
and evaluation, and management of natural resources
and the environment.

Loans and technical assistance: No new loans were
approved for Thailand in 2000, primarily because of concerns
over the level of public debt in the wake of Thailand's
stabilization and structural adjustment program. In March
2000, ADB approved a $25.0 million equity investment in
the Small and Medium Enterprises Investment and
Restructuring Fund. The Fund, which has a target of
$100.0 million, will invest in promising businesses in need

Thailand
Cumulative ADB Lending
(as of 31 December 2000)

 

 

Sector No. of Loans $ Million re
Energy 27 1,632.3 30.5
Transport and

Communications 17 1,214.5 22.7
Social Infrastructure 15 758.7 14.2
Agriculture and

Natural Resources 13 709.1 13.3
Multisector 1 500.0 9.4
Finance 9 494.5 9:2.
Industry and

Nonfuel Minerals 1 39.0 0.7
Total 83 5,348.1 100.0

Thailand

Lending and Disbursements, 1996-2000
($ million)

o 150 300 450 600 750
2000
1999
1998
1997
1996
Ml Lending

I Disbursements

of expansion capital. ADB approved technical assistance
grants totaling $2.6 million for six projects, one of which
was financed by the Government of Switzerland.

Project implementation: Since joining ADB in 1966,
Thailand has received 83 loans, of which 13 were active at
the end of 2000. Contract awards totaled $29.2 million,
bringing the cumulative figure to $4.1 billion. The contract
award ratio was 7.5 percent, lower than the ADB-wide
average of 21 percent. Disbursements during the year totaled
$130.5 million, bringing cumulative disbursements to
$3.9 billion. The disbursement ratio was 18.3 percent, lower
than the ADB-wide average of 20.5 percent.

The overall portfolio performance in Thailand is
generally satisfactory, comparing favorably with ADB-wide
averages for postevaluation findings, project completion
report ratings, project performance report ratings of active
projects, and cost overruns. Although implementation
slowed during the financial crisis, sufficient counterpart
funds were provided to avoid any hindrance in implementation from this aspect. Nevertheless, the 2000
country portfolio review indicated the need to shorten
the time required from loan approval to loan signing,
eliminate delays in contract awards caused by slow
recruitment of consultants and slow prequalification of
contractors and bid evaluations, and maintain implementation schedules to decrease the need for loan extensions.
To help eliminate delays at project start-up, the
Government has agreed to improve the implementation
readiness of all new projects and minimize the conditions
for loan effectiveness.

In April 2000, ADB approved the establishment of a
resident mission in Thailand, to be operational by August 2001.

Viet Nam

Economic performance

Economic growth: According to official data, Viet Nam’s
real GDP growth was estimated at 6.8 percent, an increase
from 4.8 percent in 1999, the main source of this growth
being strong performance in exports and industry. The
resurgence of industry sector growth to 9.7 percent was
spurred by rising domestic and external demand, with the
domestic nonstate sector outperforming the state and
foreign private sectors. The agriculture sector performed
well (4.0 percent according to official statements) despite
the flood in the central region and drought in the north.

Recent data show that the incidence of poverty, based
on international poverty benchmarks, has declined overthe last five years: from
58 percent in FY1993 (ending
31 March) to 37 percent in
FY1998. However, many
individuals who were positioned just below the poverty
line in 1993 are now
clustered just above it.

Employment: In 2000,
the urban unemployment rate
decreased slightly to 6.4 percent,
from 6.7 percent in 1999, mainly
because of the economic recovery. Although
the overall unemployment rate in major cities
declined in 2000, the rates were relatively higher
in the urban areas of the Red River Delta and
central northern regions.

Inflation: Inflation continued to fall in 2000.
As of end-December, the year-on-year percentage
change in the consumer price index (CPI) was
-0.6 percent. The fall in world prices of agricultural
commodities, particularly rice, led to a decline in the
food price index that was only partially offset by
higher prices of nonfood items in the CPI basket.

Fiscal balance: The fiscal deficit (including
onlending) was estimated at 3.0 percent of GDP
in 2000, compared with 2.8 percent of GDP in
1999, reflecting easing of the fiscal stance to spur
economic recovery. Revenue receipts as a share of GDP
were 18.7 percent, helped partly by higher international
prices for oil. Expenditure as a share of GDP was estimated
to have increased by 2.5 percent over the previous year,
as a result of a 25 percent wage increase in public sector
salaries and higher capital spending. Although the fiscal
deficit was contained within manageable limits, the decline
in non-oil revenues as a share of GDP since 1996 is cause
for concern.

External sector: Exports grew by 21.3 percent in 2000,
compared with 24.1 percent in 1999. The surge in the value
of oil exports and fast-growing manufactured exports were
the major driving forces. Imports grew by about 29.1 percent
in 2000, compared with 3.8 percent in 1999. As a result, the
current account surplus narrowed to 2.0 percent of GDP in
2000 from 4.0 percent in 1999. The slowdown in inflows from
foreign direct investment (FDI) continued in 2000, with the
sectors having attracted FDI in the past (heavy industry, real
estate, and construction) reaching their saturation points.

With the signing of the US-Viet Nam Trade Agreement
in July 2000, the prospects for the external sector rose
but the benefits may not be realized for some time. Viet

     
   
  
  
 
  

Regional and Country Highlights 89

Nam’s external debt position
improved as a result of a
major write-down on its debt
to Russia.

Domestic policies: The
Government's fiscal and
monetary policies were
accommodative in 2000.
Money supply grew by
40.6 percent. The Government
continued with reforms in
2000 in private sector development, state-owned enterprises (SOEs), and banking.
- The Enterprise Law, which
became effective on 1 January
2000, contributed to a surge
in the number of registered
private firms. By December
2000, 14,400 new firms had
registered, more than triple
the number registered in 1999.
The government has formulated an SOE reform plan that
includes equitization/divesti
ture of 1,857 enterprises, restructuring 423 others,

and providing adequate safety nets for redundant

workers. In banking, the Government established

the National Development Assistance Fund, thus,

moving closer to separating policy lending from commercial

lending. The first stock exchange was opened in July 2000
in Ho Chi Minh City.

In Viet Nam, ADB
helped develop the
Government's poverty
reduction strategy.

ADB operations

Operational strategy: Work on ADB’s new operational
strategy for Viet Nam was begun in 2000, with expected
completion in 2001.

ADB loan operations in 2000 were guided by the 1995
operational strategy and focused on policy reform,
infrastructure rehabilitation, and human development.
Based on ADB's poverty reduction strategy and the
Government's emerging development priorities, ADB's
future strategy for Viet Nam will likely focus on three
priorities: (i) economic growth and private sector development (with particular emphasis on domestic small and
medium enterprises) through policy reform in the financial
and agriculture sectors, and improved governance;
(ii) improved human and social capital by investing in
secondary education, health, and urban development in90 ANNUAL REPORT 2000

Poeeceseseseereeesreeesreercecee eee eee eeeneee®

provincial and district towns; and (iii) geographic and
socioeconomic targeting by concentrating up to a third of
ADB operations on the central region of the country,
particularly on the north central coast and the central
highlands, which are among the poorest regions in Viet Nam.

Policy dialogue: Policy dialogue evolved around the
Government's preparation of Viet Nam's Socioeconomic
Development Strategy for 2001-2010, to be adopted in April
2001. Policy recommendations and issues for further analysis were synthesized in the Viet Nam Development Report
2001—Entering the 21*' Century, a joint report by the World
Bank, ADB, and United Nations Development Programme,
and discussed at the December 2000 Consultative Group
Meeting in Hanoi.

In close collaboration with other funding agencies and
nongovernment organizations, ADB also supported the
formulation of the Government's poverty reduction strategy
through a small-scale technical assistance and helped with
three regional consultation workshops on the draft strategy.

Dialogue with the Government on good governance
focused on policy and structural reforms in public
administration, the legal sector, private sector development,
SOEs, and banking reforms.

Loans and technical assistance: In 2000, ADB
approved four loans totaling $223.5 million in the fields of
tural health, rural credit, and agricultural diversification,
and including a private sector loan for a build-operatetransfer water treatment project; and approved a reallocation of $58.3 million loan to provide emergency assistance
for flood rehabilitation in the Mekong Delta and central
region of Viet Nam. ADB also approved 12 technical
assistance projects totaling more than $9.1 million.

Project implementation: Since joining ADB in 1966,
Viet Nam has received 43 loans, of which 29 were active
at the end of 2000. Contract awards totaled $176.3 million,
bringing the cumulative figure to $1,029.4 million. The
contract award ratio was 19.0 percent, lower than the
ADB-wide average of 21 percent. Disbursements during the
year totaled $237.4 million, bringing cumulative disbursements to $813.8 million. The disbursement ratio was
18.7 percent, lower than the ADB-wide average of
20.5 percent.

Overall portfolio performance in Viet Nam continued
to improve in 2000; implementation progress and achievement of development objectives were generally satisfactory.
The improvement was attributed to government efforts,
supported by ADB technical assistance to familiarize the
executing agencies with implementation procedures and
requirements, and to monthly project implementation review
meetings held by the Viet Nam Resident Mission with the

Viet Nam
Cumulative ADB Lending
(as of 31 December 2000)

Sector No. of Loans $ Million %

Agriculture and

Natural Resources 15 604.8 28.8
Social Infrastructure 12 549.9 26.2
Transport and

Communications 8° 531.2 25.3
Energy 3 186.3 8.9
Industry and

Nonfuel Minerals 3 130.0 6.2
Finance 2 97.0 4.6
Total 43 2,099.2 100.0

 

a Includes Viet Nam loan component for the Greater Mekong Subregion: Phnom
Penh-Ho Chi Minh City Highway Project amounting to $100 million and Greater
Mekong Subregion: East-West Corridor amounting to $25 million.

Viet Nam
Lending and Disbursements, 1996-2000
($ million)
0 80 160 240 320 400
2000
1999
1998
1997
1996
M5 Lending

HE Disbursements

Ministry of Planning and Investment, and the line ministries
and executing agencies concerned. A gap still exists between
the increasing level of commitment and actual disbursements. Issues to be addressed are centralized and
cumbersome approval processes; inadequate project
implementation capacity; delays in recruiting consultants and
procuring goods and services; lack of counterpart funds; and
issues on land acquisition, resettlement, and compensation.

To address these issues, a Project Management
Conference, cosponsored by ADB, World Bank, and Japan
Bank for International Cooperation, was organized in April
2000. In addition, a country portfolio review was undertaken
by ADB in the fourth quarter of 2000, after which the
Government and ADB agreed to a time-bound action plan
to improve overall portfolio performance.Regional and Country Highlights 91

eee eee eee eee ee ee

East Timor, occupying the eastern part of the island of Timor,
is situated between Australia and Indonesia.

Following a referendum in August 1999, East Timor
was placed under the supervision of the United Nations.
On 9 December 1999, a Trust Fund for East Timor (TFET)
was established with the assistance of funding agencies.
The TFET grant projects are formulated and supervised by
ADB and the World Bank.

Economic performance

The economy was severely affected by the violence and
destruction that followed the referendum, with some
estimates indicating a 40 percent decline in real gross
domestic product (GDP) in 1999. Public and private property was damaged, the agricultural cycle and trade were
disrupted, and a substantial part of infrastructure was
destroyed. Low cash activities; low demand; and lack of
capital, infrastructure, and a transport system constrain the
economy. Unemployment is high and humanitarian assistance
continues to be an important source of support for a sizable
part of the population.

As conditions in the country gradually returned to
normal, the economy rebounded. Given the low base, real
GDP growth was estimated at 15 percent in 2000, largely
as a result of reconstruction work and the gradual restoration of commerce, business, and basic services. Because
of favorable weather, the output of maize, rice, and
coffee (the major export commodity) also
improved in 2000. Inflation slowed, along
with reduced regional disparities in staple food prices. The
recovery process is expected
to gather momentum and
be led by agriculture, construction, and services;
prices are expected to
stabilize in the coming
years. The combined
sources budget of East
Timor for FY2001 (ending
30 June) provides for a total
revenue of $25.1 million and total
expenditure, including net lending, of
$183.0 million. The overall deficit of
$157.9 million (about 55 percent of
GDP) will be financed largely from
external grants.

In 2000, the National Consultative Council adopted the US dollar as
the legal tender, although the Indonesian

rupiah continued to be used. The Central Payments Office
began providing basic depository and payment services.
Several regulations related to banking and the payments
system were enacted. The Central Fiscal Authority has
also started revenue and budgetary functions. The
Department of Economic Affairs and the National
Planning and Development Agency were created.

ADB operations

ADB's strategy for East Timor during the transition period
focuses on supporting the reconstruction and development of the economy. Capacity building at various levels
among East Timorese continues to be a priority. ADB is
also helping reduce poverty and improving the quality
of basic services through its TFET grant projects.

East Timor is not yet a member of ADB and is not
eligible for loans. However, ADB’s Board of Directors made
East Timor eligible for technical assistance grants primarily
for capacity building. In 2000, ADB approved 12 technical
assistance grants totaling $4.9 million. Also in 2000, ADB
established its Special Liaison Office in East Timor.

ADB is helping rebuild the economy
and lives in East Timor.92 ANNUAL REPORT 2000

Poeeceseseseereeesreeesreercecee eee eee eeeneee®

South Asia

South Asia sustained its growth in 2000, with aggregate
GDP remaining at 5.8 percent, despite a slowdown in the
Indian economy. GDP growth in India slowed marginally
because of lower-than-expected growth in agriculture sector
output and slower growth in the industry sector. Bangladesh
performed well in 2000, recovering from the devastating
floods of 1999. The other South Asian economies showed
strong signs of recovery in 2000, mainly because of higher
growth in agriculture sector output. Exports in India recorded
a double-digit rate of growth in 2000, spurred by the recovery in global trade and depreciation of the rupee. The growth
of exports in other South Asian countries was also high.

All of the South Asian countries recorded large fiscal
deficits in 2000 despite efforts to stabilize their annual
budgetary shortfalls and restructure their overall revenue
collection and expenditure management programs.
Persistent fiscal imbalances resulted in the high cost of
capital, crowded out financial resources for the private
sector, and discouraged private sector investment. High
population growth, insufficient GDP growth, low human

Selected South Asian Economies
GDP Growth Rates (percent)

1996 1997 1998 1999 2000
° ° e ® °
12.0 5

10.0 5
8.0 5
6.0 5
40-7

2.07

 

0.0 
1996 1997 1998 1999 2000
° ° ° ° e
12.0 5

10.0 5

 

 

 

 

 

 

0.0 
resource development, and improper social assistance have
constrained efforts to reduce poverty in the subregion, home
to more than half of Asia's poor. Sustained vigorous reforms
to address macroeconomic and social sector impediments
are critical for the subregion to improve the welfare of its
people and to accelerate socioeconomic progress.

Bangladesh

Economic performance

Economic growth: The Bangladesh economy recovered
in FY2000 (ending 30 June) with GDP growth of 5.5 percent,
compared with GDP growth of 4.9 percent in FY1999. As is
usual in Bangladesh, flooding in 1999 left a deposit of
nutrient-rich silt that boosted food grain output the following year. Thus, FY2000 saw record-high food grain
production of 24.9 million tons, compared with only 21.8 million tons in FY1999. Food grain output in FY2000 was also
boosted by an adequate supply of key agricultural inputs—
fertilizer, diesel, and seeds—at stable prices, allowing
Bangladesh to attain food grain self-sufficiency in FY2000.
For the agriculture sector as a whole, value added increased
by 6.4 percent in FY2000, compared with 4.8 percent the
previous year. The growth rate of industry sector output
increased to 5.6 percent in FY2000, from 4.9 percent the
preceding year. The services sector—comprising trade,
transport, catering, financial intermediation, public
administration, and professional services—maintained
growth of 5.0 percent, slightly higher than in FY1999.

Employment: About two million people enter the labor
force annually in addition to an already significant number
of underemployed workers. Relatively slow economic
growth, limited capacity for employment in agriculture, and
sluggish performance in the country’s labor-intensive
manufacturing subsector all contribute to the labor
absorption dilemma facing policymakers. The only avenue
of employment for the growing labor force is selfemployment in the low-productivity segments of the
informal sector.

Inflation: Consumer price inflation slowed to 3.4 percent in FY2000 from 8.9 percent the preceding year.
Improved availability of food items because of a bumper
harvest, weak commercial sector demand, excess capacity
in manufacturing, and delays in adjusting administered
prices all lowered the inflation rate. Food price inflation
declined sharply from 11.8 percent in FY1999 to 4.1 percent
in FY2000, while the inflation rate for nonfood items also
fell from 4.1 percent to 3.3 percent. Food grain production,well in excess of demand, caused the open market price of
coarse rice to decline by 14 percent.

Fiscal balance: As a consequence of weak revenue
mobilization and a surge in expenditure, the budget deficit
increased sharply to 6.1 percent of GDP in FY2000, compared
with 4.8 percent in FY1999. Net domestic financing of the
budget deficit increased to 3.3 percent of GDP in FY2000
from 2.4 percent in FY1999. The Government's bank
borrowing to finance the budget deficit increased from
0.9 percent of GDP in FY1999 to 1.6 percent in FY2000.

External sector: The growth rate of exports in FY2000

rose to 8.2 percent, compared with 2.9 percent the previous
year, which was mainly depressed because of floods. Export
growth continued to be concentrated narrowly in just two
products—ready-made garments and knitwear—which
accounted for 76 percent of total exports in FY2000. Import
growth was relatively slow at 4.4 percent in FY2000, mainly
because of reduced food imports resulting from the bumper
harvest. However, imports of nonfood items increased by
13 percent because of a higher level of imports of petroleum
and oil products, chemicals, textiles, and capital goods. With
the trade deficit remaining at almost the same level as the
previous year and 14 percent growth in remittances, the
current account deficit declined to 1 percent of GDP in
FY2000, compared with 1.4 percent of GDP the preceding
year. Despite improvement in the current account,
Bangladesh’s overall balance of payments remained fragile,
with foreign exchange reserves totaling only $1.6 billion
(2.3 months’ equivalent of imports) at the end of FY2000.
While foreign exchange reserves declined to only $1.3 billion
in mid-November, December 2000 saw a slight increase
0 $1.5 billion (equivalent to less than two months’
imports). In light of this, Bangladesh Bank introduced
measures for improving foreign exchange reserves during
FY2000.
Domestic policies: Broad money (M2) growth
accelerated to 19 percent at the end of FY2000, compared
with 13 percent in FY1999. Government borrowing from the
banking system increased by 31 percent, while Bangladesh
Bank accounted for about half of total credit expansion.
The growth rate of bank credit to the private sector declined
0 11 percent from 14 percent the previous year, mainly
ecause of depressed economic activity and high borrowing
costs. This notwithstanding, the Government took some
measures to loosen the supply of money and credit in
FY2000, including withdrawing the interest rate band for
small-scale and cottage industries and the agriculture sector,
lowering the bank rate from 8 percent to 7 percent, and
reducing the cash reserve ratio requirement of banks by
one percentage point to 4 percent.

 

Regional and Country Highlights 93

eee eee eee eee ee ee

Bangladesh's financial sector, which is dominated by
banks, is in distress because of its significant portfolio of
nonperforming loans, low recovery rates, large spreads
necessary for covering its substantial provisioning and
management costs, weak overall institutional capacity, and
deficient legal framework. As of 30 June 2000, the
nonperforming bank loan ratio increased to 40 percent, from
32 percent at end-1995. Although in recent years only private
and foreign commercial banks have been able to reduce
nonperforming loans, some progress has been made in the
legal and regulatory framework, which has allowed some
recovery of bad loans. The banking companies’ act was
amended to disqualify defaulting directors from remaining
on the boards of banks, and changes in loan classification
and provisioning standards were introduced, bringing them
closer to international standards. Steps for regulating insider
lending have also recently been taken.

Under the ADB-assisted Capital Market Development
Program loan, the Government adopted a reform package
for strengthening and more closely regulating the capital
market. In addition, the Government enacted the
Privatization Act of 2000, which provides the Privatization
Commission greater flexibility in divestment. Another law
divided the Investment Corporation of Bangladesh into three
separate corporate entities that carry out merchant banking,
engage in mutual fund operations, and undertake stock
brokerage activities. The Government also further liberalized
private sector investment.

In mid-August 2000, the Government adjusted the
administered prices of natural gas and various fuel oils
upward by 15 percent and 9-20 percent, respectively, to
avert further losses incurred from subsidizing these
products. The taka was also devalued by 5.9 percent.

ADB operations

Operational strategy: ADB's operational strategy for
Bangladesh continued to focus on reducing poverty by
promoting private sector-led economic growth, creating
better development opportunities for the poor, improving
human development to increase the productivity of the poor,
and protecting the environment. In April 2000, the
Government and ADB signed the Partnership Agreement
on Poverty Reduction, which sets medium (to 2005) and
long-term (to 2010) goals for reducing poverty.

Policy dialogue: In keeping with its emphasis on
reducing poverty and in line with the operational strategy
and the Partnership Agreement, policy dialogue with the
Government in 2000 focused on ensuring land tenure
security and sustainability of investments in rural94 ANNUAL REPORT 2000

Poeeceseseseereeesreeesreercecee eee eee eeeneee®

Bangladesh
Cumulative ADB Lending
(as of 31 December 2000)

Sector No. of Loans  $ Million %
Agriculture and
Natural Resources 62 2,127.8 34.4
Energy 21 1,276.8 20.6
Transport and
Communications 19 1,190.8 19.2
Social Infrastructure 23 956.4 15:5
Industry and
Nonfuel Minerals 8 262.5 42
Finance 8 217.6 3
Multisector 2 158.8 2.6
Total 143 6,190.7 100.0
Bangladesh
Lending and Disbursements, 1996-2000
($ million)
0 100 200 300 400 500
2000
1999
1998
1997
1996
Ml Lending

I Disbursements

infrastructure; promoting policy formulation and reform
in microfinance, rural infrastructure, and agriculture input
supply; and updating the 1989 Road Transport Policy.
Projects approved in 2000 support these objectives. The
Chittagong Hill Tracts Rural Development Project will
encourage the Government to establish a land commission. The Northwest Crop Diversification Project will
ensure better service to farmers by microfinance
institutions, emphasize the need for well-functioning
operation and maintenance systems and for local participation in selecting and managing rural infrastructure, and
continue discussions on promoting growth in food crop
production by removing market restrictions. The Road
Maintenance and Improvement Project will help prepare
a new National Land Transport Policy to include road
maintenance, road safety, private sector participation, and
the role of transport in poverty reduction.

Loans and technical assistance: In 2000, ADB
approved six loans totaling $275.1 million: a flood rehabilitation loan, a private sector power loan, and loans for the
agriculture, road improvement, and rural development
sectors. ADB also approved seven technical assistance
grants totaling $5.2 million.

Project implementation: Since joining ADB in 1973,
Bangladesh has received 143 loans, of which 37 were active
at the end of 2000. Contract awards totaled $291.6 million,
bringing the cumulative figure to $4.5 billion. The contract
award ratio was 30.7 percent, higher than the ADB-wide
average of 21 percent. Disbursements during the year totaled
$264.9 million, bringing cumulative disbursements to about
$4.5 billion. The disbursement ratio was 21.8 percent, higher
than the ADB-wide average of 20.5 percent.

A country portfolio review, undertaken in 2000, and a
review of the 1999 Action Plan indicated the need for
improvements in delegating authority to project directors;
streamlining procedures for recruiting consultants;
simplifying procedures for land acquisition and resettlement;
and ensuring adequate counterpart funds. Subsequently,
ADB approved technical assistance to strengthen the
Government's capacity in project monitoring, account
management, and audit; and streamline contract awards
and disbursement procedures in line agencies.

Bhutan

Economic performance

Economic growth: Bhutan’s economy continued to grow
strongly in 2000, with real GDP expanding by 6.1 percent,
up from 5.9 percent in 1999. Large hydropower and industry
sector projects expanded construction activities; once these
projects are commissioned, more rapid industry sector
growth, particularly in electricity, is expected.

Employment: Since an estimated 85 percent of the
population lives in rural areas, agriculture remains the
major employer, accounting for 75 percent of total
employment. The Government (public administration and
defense), the second largest employer, accounted for only
4.7 percent of total employment. Excluding agriculture,
the private sector employed 2.9 percent of Bhutan’s
workforce in 1999. The Government is addressing the
policy and institutional constraints, and is establishing
the National Technical Training Authority and the
National Employment Board.

Inflation: Consumer price inflation declined markedly
in FY2000 (ending 30 June) to 3.6 percent from 9.2 percentin FY1999 largely because of a drop in prices of edible oil.
Money supply growth remained at 21.4 percent in FY2000
as in the previous year. The increase in money supply,
however, did not translate into an increase in the inflation
rate because of a rise in the monetization of the economy.

Fiscal balance: The Government continued to cover
its expenditures from current revenues in FY2000. Inflows
of foreign grants were insufficient to cover development
expenditures. Thus, the overall budget deficit grew to
3.9 percent of GDP, up from 1.8 percent in the previous year.

External sector: The dollar value of exports grew by
5.6 percent in FY2000 after a decline of 5.0 percent in the
previous year. Import growth moderated to 14.1 percent in
FY2000 from 19.3 percent in the previous year. The trade
account deficit widened slightly from 15 percent of GDP in
FY1999 to 17 percent of GDP in FY2000; the current account
deficit rose from 25 percent of GDP to 29 percent of GDP
during the same period. Capital flows, mostly in the form
of aid for infrastructure investments, covered the current
account deficit, resulting in an overall balance-of-payments
surplus of more than 8 percent of GDP, compared with
11 percent in the previous year. This increase in foreign
exchange reserves gave Bhutan enough foreign currency
at the end of the fiscal year to cover 19 months of imports.
External debt, mainly from multilateral development
agencies, continued to be small. At the end of FY2000,
total public external debt was 40 percent of GDP. Debt
service in FY2000 was about 5 percent of merchandise
export earnings.

Domestic policies: The National Assembly passed
several important bills, including Pesticides Act; Environment
Assessment Act; Negotiable Instruments Act; Companies
Act; and Sales Tax, Customs and Excise Act. In addition,
the Personal Income Tax Act was submitted for further public
discussion, with implementation planned for FY2002.

ADB operations

Operational strategy: ADB's new operational strategy for
Bhutan, finalized in 2000, aims to reduce poverty and
improve the quality of life. ADB will support this goal by
promoting economic growth and social inclusion through
physical and social infrastructure, and private sector
development; employment creation; and improved
economic management. The impact of private sector-led
development on income and employment generation could
be strengthened with more efficient financial intermediation; road transport development and expanded power
transmission and distribution systems; and strengthened
vocational, technical, and basic skills training.

Regional and Country Highlights 95

Coe seensereseseeeresrcceeee see ese eeeeeeeooee®

Policy dialogue: Policy dialogue with the Government
focused on promoting private sector development;
improving the efficiency of public service delivery and cost
recovery; and protecting the environment. ADB will continue
to support the Government's efforts to provide an enabling
environment for private sector development by rationalizing
and strengthening banking and financial institutions;
continuing liberalization of foreign trade and exchange, and
investment regulations; liberalizing interest rates to reflect
the true underlying cost of resource mobilization,
intermediation, and risk; and preparing transparent
legislation and regulatory procedures. Financial viability and
sustainability of power operations will be pursued by making
the Department of Power a corporate entity. ADB also supports
the ongoing efforts to improve domestic resource mobilization,
including cost recovery of public service delivery, particularly
in the health and urban services.

Bhutan
Cumulative ADB Lending
(as of 31 December 2000)

 

Sector No. of Loans $ Million rt
Social Infrastructure 4 26.1 27.5
Transport and
Communications 3 19.3 20.3
Energy 2 17.5 18.5
Multisector 2 12.4 13.1
Finance 3 10.5 WA
Agriculture and
Natural Resources 2 78 8.2
Industry and
Nonfuel Minerals 1 1.2 1.3
Total 17 94.8 100.0
Bhutan
Lending and Disbursements, 1996-2000
($ million)
0 4 & 12 16 20
2000
1999
1998
1997
1996
Ml Lending

lM Disbursements96 ANNUAL REPORT 2000

Loans and technical assistance: In 2000, ADB
approved two loans totaling $19.6 million for health care
reform and road improvement. The health care reform
program will strengthen the financing, management, and
regulatory framework of the health sector. The road
improvement project will improve the East-West Highway,
thereby increasing access to health, education, and other
essential services and helping bring poor communities into
the economic mainstream. ADB also approved five technical
assistance grants totaling $2.0 million.

Project implementation: Since joining ADB in 1982,
Bhutan has received 17 loans, of which 7 were active at the
end of 2000. Contract awards totaled $10.2 million, bringing
the cumulative figure to $57.8 million. The contract award
ratio was 29.4 percent, higher than the ADB-wide average
of 21 percent. Disbursements during the year totaled $6.9
million, bringing cumulative disbursements to $54.1 million.
The disbursement ratio was 16.3 percent, lower than the
ADB-wide average of 20.5 percent.

A country portfolio review in 2000 showed that while
project implementation in Bhutan has improved, several
issues still exist: limited involvement of executing agencies
at early stages of the project cycle, particularly in designing
technical assistance; slow utilization and liquidation of
imprest accounts; and transfer of project staff because of
extended out-of-country training and as a consequence of
the ongoing reorganization of ministries. ADB and the
Government agreed on a time-bound action plan to improve
portfolio performance by enhancing the ownership level
during the project feasibility study and throughout the project
cycle. In 2000, ADB assisted the Governmentin its first study
on poverty. The poverty assessment benchmarks and
analysis will become the basis for developing institutional
capabilities to plan, monitor, and evaluate future poverty
interventions.

India

Economic performance

Economic growth: During FY2000 (ending 31 March 2001),
the optimism that prevailed at the beginning of the year
gradually waned, mainly because of unfavorable monsoon
conditions in some areas and sluggishness in the industry
sector. The agriculture sector also performed below expectations because of uneven and erratic rainfall. In some regions
such as Gujarat, Rajasthan, and Madhya Pradesh, rainfall
was below the annual average by as much as 30-40 percent.
Food grain production thus fell short of the target level of

202 million tons, and is likely to be only 199 million tons
in 2000-2001.

The industry sector also failed to sustain the recovery
begun in the previous year, its outlook being revised
downward during the year to reflect the negative economic
environment for new investment. The index of industrial
production showed an increase of 5.7 percent during the
first nine months of the year, compared with 6.4 percent in
the previous corresponding period. The capital goods sector
showed the lowest growth, reflecting a wait-and-see attitude
on the part of investors amid weak demand and higher
interest rates. The deceleration in the capital goods sector
was accompanied by an overall slowdown in industry sector
activities, including manufacturing and power. Growth in
the services sector is expected to decelerate to about
8.3 percent during the year, compared with 9.6 percent the
previous year. Reflecting the negative mood in the overall
economy, the 2000 GDP growth is estimated at 6.0 percent,
compared with the 6.5-7.0 percent level targeted at the
beginning of the year.

Employment: Sustained high
growth rates for both GDP and the
services sector were key in accelerating the employment growth
rate in 1998-2000.

 
 
  
 
   
 
 
 
   

eee ccecevee
ADB promotes
pro-poor
sustainable
economic
growth.Inflation: The inflation rate for FY2000, measured by
year-on-year changes in the monthly average of the
wholesale price index was 7.0 percent, from 3.3 percent
the previous year, mainly because of a rise in fuel prices
of almost 32 percent in the latter month of FY2000. Prices
of agricultural products remained relatively stable.

Fiscal balance:'! While the Government was able to
contain expenditures at its budgeted level, the rate of
increase in tax revenues slowed during the second half of
the year with the slowdown in non-oil imports, which meant
growth in customs duties collections was minimal. The
Government also reduced excise duties on crude oil and
petroleum products as part of its efforts to reduce the deficit
in the oil pool account. Revenues from public sector
disinvestment also fell short of the budgeted amount by
70 percent. Overall, assuming slower GDP growth in FY2000,
the estimated fiscal deficit is approximately 5.1 percent of
GDP. The fiscal deficit was met mainly by market
borrowings, which put further pressure on domestic liquidity
during the second half of the current fiscal year.

External sector: The impressive performance of the
export sector continued in FY2000, with exports up by
20.4 percent or to $32.3 billion during the first nine months
of this fiscal year, compared with $26.8 billion during the
same period a year ago. Imports grew by only 9 percent
and the trade deficit dropped by $2.3 billion, despite the
surge in the oil import bill, mainly because of robust growth
in exports and a decline in non-oil imports. Because of the
strong export performance, higher oil prices did not put undue
pressure on the balance of payments with the current account
deficit remaining at around 1.6 percent of GDP during FY2000.

In FY1999, the rupee depreciated by 2.8 percent against
the US dollar. Higher oil prices, rising inflation, and a
stronger US dollar against all major currencies caused the
rupee to lose nearly 7 percent of its value from the beginning
of FY2000. However, depreciation in the real effective rate
was less than 2 percent in FY2000.

Foreign direct investment inflows were $1.9 billion
during the first nine months of FY2000, marking a slight
increase, compared with $1.5 billion during the same period
in the previous year. About half of foreign direct investment
went to energy (power and oil refineries) and telecommunications. Foreign institutional investment recorded a net
outflow of $476 million, compared with significant net
inflows of $1.1 billion in FY1999. However, foreign
exchange reserves remained at a comfortable level,

 

 

Regional and Country Highlights 97

eee eee eee eee ee ee

having gradually fallen during the first half of the fiscal year,
but rising again during the second half to $41.6 billion.
Domestic policies: The macroeconomic environment
was less favorable in FY2000 than previously. In recent
years, the Reserve Bank of India has maintained low interest
rates and provided sufficient liquidity to support industry
sector recovery. Ample liquidity to the corporate sector
helped strengthen performance of the industry sector during the previous fiscal year. However, rising US interest rates
and the subsequent depreciation of the rupee prompted the
Reserve Bank of India to raise the interest rate and reserve
ratio in July 2000, which was followed by a hike in the prime
lending rate to commercial borrowers. Because of the large
fiscal deficit, government borrowing also put pressure on
interest rates. Both higher interest rates and tightening
liquidity adversely affected the industry sector and the
overall economic outlook in FY2000. The Government
introduced a Fiscal Responsibility and Budget Management
Bill in the winter session of the Parliament to bring the
government debt down to 50 percent of GDP by 2001.

 

ADB operations

Operational strategy: ADB's operational strategy for India
promotes employment and poverty reduction by minimizing bottlenecks in key infrastructure sectors; developing and
improving the enabling environment for private sector
investment; improving public resource mobilization and
management at the state level, including enhancing
resource allocation for social sectors; and strengthening
the focus on urban development, environmental improvement, and housing finance. ADB’s operational program continues to be selective with regard to sector and geography:
state-level operations will account for up to 50 percent of
annual lending in the next few years. Support for private sector
infrastructure development (including power generation and
transmission, and ports) and public-private partnerships
continues to be the main focus of private sector operations.

Policy dialogue: Policy dialogue with the Government
focused on improving the urban environment, instituting
economic and structural reforms at the state level,
implementing policy and institutional reforms in the power
subsector at the national and state levels, and strengthening
the role of community-based and microfinance institutions
in housing finance. ADB's projects in 2000 supported these
objectives. For example, the Calcutta Environmental

11 India uses fiscal deficit/surplus. While the definition of the budget deficit/surplus includes all types of borrowings in the capital account in
deriving total revenue, the revenue stream for fiscal deficit consists of sustainable sources of government revenues (taxes, nontax revenues,
and grants) and certain ad hoc incomes in the capital account (proceeds from loan repayments and incomes from privatization).98 ANNUAL REPORT 2000

Poeeceseseseereeesreeesreercecee eee eee eeeneee®

India
Cumulative ADB Lending
(as of 31 December 2000)

 

Sector No. of Loans  $ Million %
Energy 19 3,416.8 37.3
Transport and

Communications 13 2,155.6 23.6
Finance 11 1,330.0 14.5
Social Infrastructure 14 1,330.0 14.5
Others 2 500.0 5.5
Multisector 2 250.07 2.7
Industry and

Nonfuel Minerals 4 175.9 1:9
Total 65 9,158.3 100.0

a Adjusted after termination of loan for the Private Sector Infrastructure Facility
amounting to $50 million.

India
Lending and Disbursements, 1996-2000
($ million)

0 200 400 600 800 1,400
2000 —_
1999
1998
1997
1996

M5 Lending

HE Disbursements

Improvement Project will support improved urban
management and municipal administration and address
urban poverty and environmental concerns. The Gujarat
Power Sector Development Program will support
restructuring of the state’s power sector; and the Power
Transmission Improvement (Sector) Project will improve
generation capacity by strengthening the power transmission network, building long-term institutional
capacity, and facilitating private sector participation. The
Housing Finance II Project will channel financing from
formal institutions through intermediaries such as
community-based finance institutions and nongovernment organizations.

Loans and technical assistance: In 2000, ADB
approved nine loans for five projects, totaling $1.3 billion:
four loans for the social infrastructure sector (housing

finance), one for transport, one for environmental
improvement, and three for the energy sector (including
one program loan). ADB also approved 16 technical
assistance grants totaling $9.5 million.

Project implementation: Since joining ADB in 1966,
India has received 65 loans, of which 40 were active at the
end of 2000. Contract awards totaled $380.8 million, bringing
the cumulative figure to $5.8 billion. The contract award
ratio was 20.3 percent, lower than the ADB-wide average
of 21 percent. Disbursements during the year totaled
$487.0 million, bringing cumulative disbursements to
$5.5 billion. The disbursement ratio was 22.2 percent, higher
than the ADB-wide average of 20.5 percent.

Project implementation in India continued to be
affected by delays in recruiting consultants, and in
selecting and awarding contracts. In addition to several
specific actions to minimize delays at project start-up,
such as preparing consultant selection documents prior
to loan negotiations and encouraging executing agencies
to use direct payment and commitment letters to ease
cash flow pressures, ADB and the Government agreed
on a time-bound action plan to improve portfolio
performance. Among other things, the plan calls for
following up on results of random audits undertaken by
the India Resident Mission.

Maldives

Economic performance

Economic growth: The Maldives’ economy grew by
4.2 percent in 2000, compared with an annual average
growth rate of 8.2 percent in 1995-1999. This slowdown
was because of underperformance in two key sectors:
fisheries and tourism. In addition, high oil prices since early
1999 dampened economic growth. The total fish catch
declined by about 17 percent, compared with the previous
year. While tourist arrivals increased by 8.7 percent in 2000,
this was more than offset by the decline in hotel rates
because of lower occupancy rates following the opening of
13 new resorts.

Employment: Official unemployment data are not
available in the Maldives, but the country faces large challenges
in accommodating the 5,000 new graduates expected to join
the labor force annually over the next five years and reducing
the current heavy reliance on expatriate labor.

Inflation: Consumer price inflation averaged negative
1.1 percent in 2000, as prices of food and other commodities
declined relative to 1999.Fiscal balance: The fiscal deficit as a percentage of GDP
fell from 6.6 percent in 1999 to 4.1 percent in 2000, because
of expenditure-reducing measures and larger than expected
revenues. In recent years, the fiscal deficit has been monetized
by borrowing from the Maldives Monetary Authority (MMA).
Continued borrowings from the MMA thus drove the total
government debt to 15.1 percent of GDP in 2000.

External sector: Exports increased by 13.2 percent in

2000, largely because of increases in the export value of
fish products despite a reduction in total fish catch. Imports
decreased by 1.0 percent because of the economic
slowdown, resulting in a narrowing of the trade deficit from
67.6 percent of GDP in 1999 to 53.3 percent in 2000 and a
decline in the current account deficit from 11.1 percent of
GDP in 1999 to 4.6 percent in 2000. The overall balance of
ayments also improved as a result of an increase in foreign
grants and loans. Foreign exchange reserves recorded a
slight decline to an estimated 3.7 months’ equivalent of
imports in November 2000 from 3.9 months’ equivalent in
ovember 1999. The total external debt position improved
slightly from 36.6 percent of GDP in 1999 to 36.2 percent
in 2000, comprised almost entirely of medium- and longerm debt. The debt service ratio of 3.9 percent in 1999 was
maintained in 2000.
Domestic policies: While the country remained vulnerable to external shocks because of its dependence on
ourism and fishing, the economy remained stable, as the
Government consolidated its fiscal position and accelerated structural reforms necessary for sustained rapid growth.
The Government continued to aim at broadening the tax
ase by introducing a corporate income tax and a rental
value tax, and by making the revenue system more resilient to external shocks. The Government also prepared for
he issuance of treasury bills for replacing the system of
automatic financing through the MMA.

 

ADB operations

Operational strategy: ADB's operational strategy for the
Maldives will be developed after a poverty analysis has
been completed. ADB support is expected in five key
areas: (i) regional development by providing basic social
and economic infrastructure for a more equitable and
cost-effective distribution of social and economic services; (ii) environmental management by strengthening
institutional capacities in monitoring and enforcing
environmental rules and regulations, and taking
environmental protection measures; (iii) human resource
development especially through higher education and
skills training; (iv) improved public sector management

Regional and Country Highlights 99

Coe seensereseseeeresrcceeee see ese eeeeeeeooee®

and decentralization; and (v) increased private sector
participation in the economy.

Policy dialogue: Policy dialogue with the Government
focused on regional development, improving the
postsecondary education system, and strengthening the
power supply capacity in Malé and the outer islands. Other
important issues included enhancing the Government’s
public accounting system, developing a system of national
accounts, preparing a science and technology master plan,
improving legal and judicial training; and enhancing the
capacity of the customs office.

Loans and technical assistance: No loans were
approved in 2000. ADB approved three technical assistance
grants totaling $1.4 million.

Project implementation: Since joining ADB in 1978,
the Maldives has received nine loans, of which three were
active at the end of 2000. Contract awards totaled
$7.5 million, bringing the cumulative figure to $42.7 million.
The contract award ratio was 46.8 percent, higher than the
ADB-wide average of 21 percent. Disbursements during the
year totaled $1.3 million, bringing cumulative disbursements

Maldives
Cumulative ADB Lending
(as of 31 December 2000)

 

Sector No. of Loans $ Million cA
Energy 3 22.3 40.4
Transport and

Communications 3 16.2 29.4
Multisector 2 10.4 18.8
Social Infrastructure 1 6.3 11.4
Total 9 55.2 100.0

Maldives
Lending and Disbursements, 1996-2000
($ million)
G 2 4 6 8 10
2000
1999
1998
1997
1996
M@§ Lending

Hl Disbursements100 ANNUAL REPORT 2000

Poeeceseseseereeesreeesreercecee eee eee eeeneee®

to $36.1 million. The disbursement ratio was 6.3 percent,
lower than the ADB-wide average of 20.5 percent, because
most projects were at early stages of implementation.

In 2000, ADB and the Government undertook a country
portfolio review. Delays have been observed primarily in
the initial phases of implementation and have related to
recruiting consultants, procurement, and contract awards.
ADB has been assisting the Government in improving project
implementation performance by providing consultancies
and training under ongoing projects.

Nepal

Economic performance

Economic growth: Nepal's economy was stable in FY2000
(ending 15 July). Real GDP grew by 6.4 percent in FY2000,
up from 4.5 percent in FY1999, because of better
performance in the agriculture and industry sectors. Growth
in real agriculture sector output reached 5 percent in FY2000
partly because of improved weather. Increased production
of principal food crops led the recovery in agriculture. In
FY2000, rice production exceeded 4 million metric tons, an
8.6 percent increase in output over the previous year. Maize
and wheat production also benefited from the favorable
weather, with output expanding by 7.4 and 9.0 percent,
respectively. Industry sector output grew by 8.7 percent in
FY2000, compared with 6.0 percent the previous year. The
number of tourists visiting Nepal declined by 3 percent in
FY2000.

Employment: Because Nepal's economy is dominated
by subsistence agriculture, the labor force participation rate
is high and the unemployment rate low. The overall unemployment rate in 2000 was less than 2 percent, but the urban
unemployment rate was higher at 7 percent.

Inflation: Money supply growth continued to be rapid,
with broad money (M2) increasing by about 22 percent in
FY2000, compared with 21 percent in FY1999. At 3.5 percent
in FY2000, inflation was at its lowest rate in more than
20 years after a more than 11 percent increase in FY1999.
Increased agriculture sector output kept growth in the price
of food items in check at less than 1 percent on average
during the year. This helped to counteract increases in the
administered prices of fuel, electricity, and water, which
caused the nonfood price index to increase by 7 percent.

Fiscal balance: The fiscal deficit of 3.9 percent was
the same in FY2000 as in FY1999. Domestic revenue
collection was 5 percent lower than budgeted, with actual
revenue totaling about | 1 percent of GDP, roughly the same

level as in the previous year. This low level of collections
was offset by slower-than-budgeted growth in development
expenditure, which rose by 17 percent rather than the
48 percent envisaged in the budget. Foreign grants and loans
financed about 50 percent of development expenditures.

External sector: While the dollar value of net service
receipts continued to fall in FY2000, this was offset by an
increase in the dollar value of net transfers, mainly because
of rising remittances. The current account deficit of
1.5 percent of GDP was smaller than the average deficit of
8 percent during the 1990s. Official loans and grants
continued to decline from their peak in FY1998, but the
$292 million net inflow more than offset the deficit in the
current account. As a result, Nepal's foreign exchange
reserves grew from $887 million in FY1999 to $981 million
by the end of FY2000, enough to cover about six months
of imports. External debt as a percentage of GDP fell to about
48 percent in FY2000. Because of the concessional nature
of borrowing, the external debt service ratio was at a
manageable level of 5.3 percent of export earnings.

Domestic policies: To sustain growth rapid enough
to reduce poverty, the Government will continue the reforms
begun in the early 1990s and provide an environment
conducive to private sector development. For this to occur,
financial sector reform will need to increase the savings
rate and channel these funds into productive investments.
In FY2000, the Government continued to implement the
Agriculture Perspective Plan, further liberalizing agriculture
by removing fertilizer subsidies. Prioritizing development
expenditures and preparing a three-year rolling expenditure
plan are also being expedited to raise the efficiency of public
sector investments.

ADB operations

Operational strategy: ADB's operational strategy for Nepal,
approved in 1999, focuses on achieving sustainable
poverty reduction by generating productive employment
opportunities and increased rural incomes from broad-based
economic growth, improving basic social services, and
protecting and improving the environment. The strategy
calls for building effective institutions to implement socioeconomic development in a market economy. Five key
elements of the strategy are being emphasized: improved
governance to strengthen key institutions and promote
private sector participation, support for the Government's
initiative in decentralization, private sector development,
gender equity, and subregional cooperation.

Policy dialogue: The strategy emphasizes that building
capacity to maximize and sustain the development impactof investments must take precedence over levels of
assistance. Prerequisites for future interventions include
garnering strong stakeholder support for ADB’s proposed
assistance and formulating long-term institutional
development strategies. ADB support to particular sectors/
subsectors depends on progress toward strengthening the
policy and institutional environment in them. Longer-term
technical assistance would support policy and institutional
reforms.

ADB is focusing on fewer sectors/subsectors and
linking future lending to progress in addressing major
country performance issues. Country-specific performance
standards are regularly monitored and progress reports,
which are prepared jointly by ADB and the Government,
are part of the annual country strategy and program
planning for Nepal.

Loans and technical assistance: In 2000, ADB
approved four loans totaling $173.3 million for the
agriculture, social, and financial sectors. ADB also approved
nine technical assistance grants totaling $7.3 million.

Project implementation: Since joining ADB in 1966,
Nepal has received 99 loans, of which 25 were active at the
end of 2000. Contract awards totaled $48.3 million, bringing
the cumulative figure to $1.2 billion. The contract award
ratio was 15.9 percent, lower than the ADB-wide average
of 21 percent. Disbursements during the year totaled
$99.6 million, bringing cumulative disbursements to
$1.2 billion. The disbursement ratio was 37 percent, higher
than the ADB-wide average of 20.5 percent.

In the past three years, Nepal's disbursement
performance has exceeded the ADB-wide Asian Development Fund average. There has been a decrease in
transferring key project staff, which has led to greater
continuity in project implementation. Submission of audited
accounts has been generally satisfactory. Local groups and
communities are increasingly being involved in ADB-supported
projects, particularly on gender issues. ADB is supporting the
country’s governance reform program, including civil service
reform and efforts to reduce corruption.

In 2000, the Nepal Resident Mission continued to
support improved project implementation by holding
monthly meetings with project managers, and, together with
the Government and the World Bank, conducted quarterly
meetings to review the portfolio and work toward better
project implementation. A joint memorandum of
understanding summarized five key areas of concern:
(i) expediting consultant recruitment, (ii) streamlining procurement procedures, (iii) strengthening project management (particularly staff recruitment, transfer, and incentives),
(iv) improving financial management and governance, and

Regional and Country Highlights 101

Coe seensereseseeeresrcceeee see ese eeeeeeeooee®

Nepal
Cumulative ADB Lending
(as of 31 December 2000)

 

Sector No. of Loans $ Million ot
Agriculture and
Natural Resources 51 788.5 42.5
Energy 14 432.4 23.3
Social Infrastructure 13 292.1 15:7
Transport and
Communications 12 224.7 Tid
Industry and
Nonfuel Minerals 5 75.1 4.1
Others 3 35.6 1.9,
Finance 1 13 0.4
Total 99 1,855.7 100.0
Nepal
Lending and Disbursements, 1996-2000
($ million)
0 45 90 135 180 300
2000
1999
1998
1997
4006 7
MM) Lending

HM Disbursements

(v) enhancing portfolio/project monitoring and evaluation
with key performance indicators. The Government agreed to
a time-bound action plan to improve portfolio performance.

Pakistan

Economic performance

Economic growth: The new Government (which assumed
power in October 1999) introduced several measures to
stabilize the economy. As a result, Pakistan's economic
performance during FY2000 (ending 30 June) showed signs
of recovery, compared with FY1999.

In FY2000, the economy grew by 4.5 percent, the
highest rate since 1996, largely because of the strong
performance of the agriculture sector. Bumper crops of102 ANNUAL REPORT 2000

cotton and wheat, coupled with increased rice production,
led agriculture to grow by 7.0 percent. The cotton crop
especially gave a boost to the textile industry after three
years of lackluster activity. Strong growth in agriculture also
helped contain imports of edible oil and wheat. Large-scale
manufacturing, however, declined marginally by 0.7 percent
in FY2000, compared with an increase of 3.7 percent during
FY1999. This occurred mainly because of a sharp fall in sugar
production. During FY2000, the services sector grew by
4.5 percent against the target of 5.2 percent.
Employment: The Government estimated that
2.4 million people were unemployed in FY2000, compared
with 2.3 million in FY1999. The overall unemployment rate
was about 6.1 percent, with higher rates in the urban areas.
Inflation: During FY2000, consumer price inflation was
3.6 percent, the lowest in three decades, mainly because
of improved availability of agricultural and food products.
Despite a sharp increase in international oil prices, the price
subindexes for fuel and electricity, and transport and
communications, posted less-than-expected increases of
6.0 percent and 8.7 percent, respectively, in FY2000,
compared with 1.7 percent and 8.2 percent in FY1999.
However, because of a rise in domestic interest rates and
sharp depreciation of the Pakistan rupee, price indexes are likely to increase in FY2001.
Fiscal balance: The fiscal deficit for
FY2000 was 6.5 percent of GDP, higher
han for FY1999. Delays in passing on
he cost of higher international oil prices
o domestic consumers, the settlement
of accumulated tax returns, and an overrun in defense expenditure were major
actors in the higher-than-planned fiscal
deficit. Under the agreement with Internaional Monetary Fund (IMF), the Government is committed to reducing the fiscal
deficit to 5.2 percent of GDP in FY2001.
External sector: In FY2000,
Pakistan reduced its current account
deficit to about $1.0 billion from
$2.4 billion in FY1999. This was
made possible by a reduced trade
deficit. Exports recorded an
8.4 percent increase in
FY2000, led by an increase in

 

ADB began to forge partnership
agreements on poverty reduction

in 2000, a major step toward
improving the quality of life.

extile exports. Although the value of oil imports increased
because of higher oil prices, overall imports remained
relatively flat in value terms because of lower levels of food,
defense, and other non-oil imports.

Following the advice of IMF, the Government moved
0 a floating exchange rate regime in September 2000. The
Pakistan rupee was allowed to depreciate 12 percent against
he US dollar and remained relatively stable. Foreign
exchange reserves continued to decline to about $1.0 billion
as of October 2000, down from $1.4 billion at the close of
FY2000. This vulnerable foreign exchange position is a major
concern of the Government. An IMF arrangement with the
Government in November 2000 enabled other multilateral
development banks to resume lending to Pakistan. Under
he arrangement, $1.5 billion is to be provided to Pakistan
rom ADB, IMF, and World Bank. Since Pakistan's foreign
exchange requirement for the current fiscal year is estimated
at $3.5 billion, the balance of $2.0 billion is expected to be
met by a second round of debt rescheduling with the Paris
and London clubs in early 2001.

Domestic policies: Sustained implementation of
political structural reforms—fiscal

reforms, financial sector restructuring, and privatization—is key if
Pakistan is to achieve its longterm development objectives,
which include faster economic
growth and poverty reduction.
Improving the quality of governance is a precondition for success
of the reforms, and for sustainable
development.

Poverty reduction is another
area of concern. Using the caloric
definition, poverty is estimated by
the Government at 30 percent.

In 2000, the main focus of
the Government's fiscal
reforms was improving revenue collection by broadening
the tax base and strengthening
tax administration. The Government introduced several
measures for this: an agricultural income tax; a more integrated, client-based, and
functional tax administration
system; a tax amnesty scheme; and
a comprehensive tax survey
and documentation drive.In the financial sector, detailed privatization plans have
been drafted, and disposal of the remaining shares of
national commercial banks and other state-owned financial
institutions is proceeding. With help mainly from ADB, the
Government has introduced major capital market reforms,
including establishing a national clearing and settlement
system, automating stock exchange transactions, and
establishing credit rating agencies for strengthened
information flows and market efficiency.

The pace of privatization has accelerated recently.
Initial measures included the passing of a privatization law
and forthcoming listing on the stock exchange of two
national commercial banks and a partially privatized bank.

ADB operations

Operational strategy: ADB's new operational strategy for
Pakistan will be formulated in 2001, and is expected to focus
more directly on poverty reduction. ADB's current operations
are guided by the operational framework of March 1999.
The framework reflects the changed economic circumstances faced by Pakistan following the nuclear tests in 1998,
and focuses on improving economic efficiency and export
competitiveness, ensuring human and social development,
and strengthening governance. It provides the basis for
ADB's sector focus, intersectoral linkages, and goals to
reduce poverty and improve environmental management.

Policy dialogue: Policy dialogue with the Government continued to focus on policy and institutional
reforms to reduce poverty, improve public sector governance and efficiency, and promote private sector growth.
Weak governance was recognized as a main factor
contributing to the poor delivery of government services;
decentralization and incentives—such as increased
transparency in decision making and more effective legal
systems and tax reforms—are needed. Policy dialogue also
focused on structural reforms in the export, energy, and
microfinance sectors.

Loans and technical assistance: In 2000, ADB
approved seven loans totaling $707.0 million for the rural
development, industry, financial, and energy sectors,
including one technical assistance loan for $5.0 million to
expedite energy sector restructuring. ADB also approved
eight technical assistance grants totaling $7.9 million.

Project implementation: Since joining ADB in 1966,
Pakistan has received 192 loans including 20 private sector
loans without government guarantee, of which 51 were
active at the end of 2000. Contract awards totaled
$384.8 million, bringing the cumulative figure to
$7.5 billion. The contract award ratio was 24.9 percent,

 

Regional and Country Highlights 103

Coe seensereseseeeresrcceeee see ese eeeeeeeooee®

Pakistan
Cumulative ADB Lending
(as of 31 December 2000)

 

Sector No. of Loans $ Million ot
Energy 46 3,062.0 29.1
Agriculture and

Natural Resources 58 3,034.6 28.9
Finance 33 1,427.0 13.6
Social Infrastructure 24 1,078.2 10.2
Industry and

Nonfuel Minerals 17 798.4 7.6
Transport and

Communications 11 767.0 TS
Multisector 3 344.0 3.3
Total 192 10,511.2 100.0

Pakistan
Lending and Disbursements, 1996-2000
($ million)
0 150 300 450 600 750
2000
1999
1998
1997
1996
MS Lending

HE Disbursements

higher than the ADB-wide average of 21 percent.
Disbursements during the year totaled $522.6 million,
bringing cumulative disbursements to $7.8 billion. The
disbursement ratio was 27.5 percent, higher than the
ADB-wide average of 20.5 percent.

Although Pakistan has a good disbursement record,
project implementation continued to be delayed. The
Government and ADB agreed on a comprehensive action
plan—updated at each country portfolio review—that
addresses policy- and governance-related covenants in loan
agreements. Difficulties in complying with covenants were
attributed to a lack of ownership, an unclear definition of
responsibilities, inadequate follow-up, and resource and
capacity constraints. The action plan identifies tasks to help
improve capacity for complying with these covenants.

As a result of slowed project implementation, some
loan closing dates had to be extended. The Government104 ANNUAL REPORT 2000

Poeeceseseseereeesreeesreercecee eee eee eeeneee®

and ADB agreed to address problems with decision
making, procurement delays, project management skills
and coordination, conflicts between government
regulations and ADB guidelines, and public expenditure
management.

Sri Lanka

Economic performance

Economic growth: After achieving growth momentum
during the second half of 1999, Sri Lanka recorded an annual
growth rate of 6.0 percent in 2000, compared with
4.3 percent in 1999. Growth in agriculture slowed. The
services sector showed steady growth and the industry
sector outperformed other sectors. The rapid growth of the
industry sector was attributed to a favorable external trade
environment that began during the second half of 1999. In
the agriculture sector, foreign exchange earnings from tea
and coconut increased; but paddy output declined because
of unfavorable weather. In the industry sector, production
of textiles and garments, and rubber and plastic products
expanded because of increased world demand. The steady
growth of the services sector reflected the continued fast
growth in telecommunications, following large investments
in past years. Total tourist arrivals declined slightly,
reflecting security concerns.

Employment: The unemployment rate dropped from
8.9 percent in 1999 to 8 percent in 2000, indicating
economic recovery. While graduates had difficulty finding
jobs, rural poor youth filled vacancies in security
establishments. The number of foreign migrant workers
also increased.

Inflation: Consumer price inflation was 6.2 percent in
2000, up from 4.7 percent in 1999. Key factors for the higher
inflation rate were high food prices because of less favorable weather in 2000 and high oil prices.

Fiscal balance: Defense expenditure increased to
5.6 percent of GDP in 2000 from 4.4 percent in 1999. To
counterbalance this, the Government raised the national
security levy and excise taxes on alcohol and tobacco,
and reduced nonessential capital expenditure by about
10 percent. Despite many fiscal consolidation efforts, the
budget deficit increased to 9.8 percent of GDP from
7.5 percent in 1999.

External sector: Exports grew by 17.8 percent in 2000,
maintaining the momentum achieved in late 1999, while
imports soared by 22.9 percent. The high export growth rate
resulted from strong economic growth in Europe and the

US, and recovery in Asia. The main contributors to export
growth were textiles and garments, which increased by
20.5 percent. Imports of investment goods such as transport
equipment and machinery showed a slower growth rate of
13.4 percent. However, imports of intermediate goods such
as crude oil and textiles increased by 22.9 percent, reflecting
Sri Lanka's export-led import structure and high oil prices.
As a consequence, the current account deficit increased to
7.3 percent of GDP from 3.7 percent in 1999. The ratio of
external debt to GDP decreased from 59.0 percent in 1999
to 57.8 percent in 2000. Official reserves stood at 1.5 months
of merchandise imports. The Sri Lankan rupee depreciated
by 9.9 percent on average in 2000, reflecting a deteriorating
balance of payments.

Domestic policies: In 2000, the Government broadened the tax base, and rationalized the tax system and
expenditure. To widen the tax base, the automatic waiver
under the excise special ordinance was amended to
minimize revenue loss, and the National Security Levy was
extended to a wider range of services. In rationalizing the
tax system, a Revenue Protection Unit was set up to
strengthen revenue enforcement laws and prevent abuses.
The Goods and Services Tax Law was amended to ensure
smooth administration and to ease difficulties experienced
in some sectors. Audit and management committees were
established to improve financial prudence in public
enterprises and statutory agencies, and a separate unit in
the Ministry of Finance and Planning was set up to evaluate
government expenditure. The central bank widened the
bandwidth for foreign exchange trading, and allowed the
rupee to depreciate against the US dollar at the end of 2000.
The central bank also increased its overnight repurchase
rate, a key instrument for the monetary policy, mainly to
maintain stability in the foreign exchange market, with the
rate reaching 20 percent at the end of 2000, compared with
9.2 percent at the end of 1999.

ADB operations

Operational strategy: ADB's operational strategy for Sri
Lanka, finalized in 1999, focuses on assisting the country’s
poverty reduction efforts through improved efficiency, more
sustainable pro-poor economic growth, and better
development opportunities for the poor. These objectives
are being achieved by supporting policy and institutional
reforms to promote private sector development and improve
public sector management; supporting human development
to address the gap in marketable skills and thereby improve
employment and income levels, especially in areas where
the poor are concentrated; enhancing the country’sSri Lanka
Cumulative ADB Lending
(as of 31 December 2000)

 

Sector No. of Loans $ Mi 7)

Agriculture and

Natural Resources 4 895.6 34.5
Social Infrastructure 17 517.0 19.9
Finance 15. 446.0 17.2
Transport and

Communications 13 427.3 16.4
Energy 10 291.8 11.2
Multisector 1 14.7 0.6
Industry and

Nonfuel Minerals 2 5.1 0.2
Total 99 2,597.5 100.0

 

infrastructure through public and private investment and
an improved sector policy and regulatory environment;
preserving the country’s natural resource base; and
instituting measures to mitigate the social and environmental
impact of economic transition.

Policy dialogue: Policy dialogue with the Govern
ment focused on improving public sector governance and
efficiency, promoting private sector growth, and reducing
overty. ADB worked with the Government to resolve
issues of good governance, accountability, transparency,
decentralization, and cooperation, and coordination
among government and nongovernment public and
rivate institutions. ADB continued its efforts to build local
capacities to support the Government's policy on
decentralization and the devolution of power to the
rovinces, which the Government considers to be a
ossible solution to the civil conflict. ADB also provided
a program cluster for private sector development, aiming
o facilitate private sector entry and participation in the
economy through an enhanced market system; increased
labor market mobility; and improved private sector access
o finance. The policy dialogue on poverty reduction was
strengthened in all sectors of ADB's program.
Loans and technical assistance: In 2000, ADB
approved seven loans totaling $234.7 million: Forest
Resources Management Sector, Water Resources
Management, Secondary Education Modernization,
Protected Area Management and Wildlife Conservation,
Private Sector Development Program (two loans), and
elanitissa Power (private sector loan). ADB also approved
1 technical assistance grants totaling $6.7 million to support
institutional capacity building and to prepare projects.

 

Regional and Country Highlights 105

eee eee eee eee ee ee

Sri Lanka
Lending and Disbursements, 1996-2000
($ million)
0 50 100 150 200 250
2000
1999
1998
1997
1996
MM Lending

Hl Disbursements

Project implementation: Since joining ADB in 1966,
Sri Lanka has received 99 loans, of which 29 were active
at the end of 2000. Contract awards totaled $57.8 million,
bringing the cumulative figure to $1.7 billion. The contract
award ratio was 7.6 percent, lower than the ADB-wide
average of 21 percent. Disbursements during the year totaled
$81.0 million, bringing cumulative disbursements to
$1.7 billion. The disbursement ratio was 13.2 percent, lower
than the ADB-wide average of 20.5 percent.

A country portfolio review was undertaken in October
2000. Portfolio performance was characterized by delays
in start-up and project implementation, caused by
cumbersome and time-consuming contracting and
procurement rules and procedures, and noncompliance with
some major financial loan covenants. Five measures which
will accelerate procurement and remove impediments to
project implementation include (i) increasing the level of
authority for awarding contracts for projects financed by
external funding agencies, (ii) including project directors in
technical evaluation committees to promote ownership,
(iii) adding guidelines on advance procurement action in
government bidding procedures, (iv) using ADB's standard
bidding documents in all procurement, and (v) implementing
anew circular for establishing the project management unit
and appointing the project director and other staff.

Additional measures taken by the Government and ADB
for improving overall portfolio performance include
identifying key impediments to smooth implementation of
the loan portfolio, providing training seminars for staff
of executing agencies on ADB’s loan administration
procedures and requirements, and convening monthly
portfolio performance review meetings with project directors
and officials of line ministries.106 ANNUAL REPORT 2000

Poeeceseseseereeesreeesreercecee eee eee eeeneee®

The Pacific

The economic recovery momentum achieved in the Pacific
in 1999 could not be sustained in 2000 because of political
instability and social unrest in the Fiji Islands and
Solomon Islands, and subdued economic growth in Papua
New Guinea. Aggregate real GDP for the 12 Pacific DMCs
declined by a weighted average of about 2 percent in 2000.
The weighted average inflation rate in the Pacific
increased to about 11.5 percent in 2000 from 10.0 percent
in 1999, because of generally weak currencies and rising
fuel prices. However, macroeconomic stability was
maintained during the extremely difficult periods in 2000
as a result of generally prudent fiscal and monetary
policies.

Many Pacific DMCs, particularly Papua New Guinea,
Solomon Islands, and Vanuatu have low human development and high human poverty indexes. The cost of
living in the Pacific DMCs is high by international
standards because of the narrow production base and
consequent dependence on international trade, which
implies high transport costs. Through regional- and
country-level technical assistance, ADB embarked in 2000
on systematically documenting poverty in the Pacific
DMCs by preparing an interim poverty assessment. The
need for strengthening public service delivery was
increasingly recognized as a means of extending the
benefits of reforms to the poor and vulnerable.

ADB prepared “A Pacific Strategy for the New
Millennium’ in 2000, which focuses on poverty reduction;
continuing support for economic management, governance, and public sector reforms; private sector
development; a more active role for women; and
sustainable environmental management. Supporting
objectives of the strategy (when approved) will include
building capacity for governance, strengthening physical
and financial infrastructure, supporting the role of civil
societies, and developing information and communication
technology in the Pacific. The strategy proposes a
subregional approach, which takes into account differences among the various Pacific DMCs. For example, in
the resource-rich but relatively poor countries (Papua New
Guinea, Solomon Islands, and Vanuatu), ADB will support
governance, public sector reform, and poverty reduction
by investing in social and physical infrastructure. The role
of women will be particularly supported. In the more
economically advanced Pacific DMCs (Cook Islands, Fiji
Islands, Federated States of Micronesia, Samoa, and
Tonga) with more advanced skills bases but moderate
resource potential, ADB will focus on private sector

Selected Pacific Economies
GDP Growth Rates (percent)

1996 1997 1998 1999 2000
° ° ° ® °
18.0 5
12.05 Fiji Islands

 
 

Tonga

  
 
   
 

6.0 5

0.0

Cook Islands
(6.0) 5 Micronesia,
Federated States of
(12.0) 5
(18.0) ~
1996 1997 1998 1999 2000
° ° ° ° °
18.0 5

12.0 5

    
    
 

6.0 | Tuvalu

0.0 
(6.0) 5

(12.0) 5 Marshall Islands
(18.0) ~
1996 1997 1998 1999 2000
e e e ° e
18.0
12.05

 
   
   
 
 

6.0 5
Solomon Islands

0.0 5
Vanuatu

(6.0) 5

Papua New Guinea

(12.0) 5

 

 

 

 

 

(18.0) =

growth through policy reform, physical infrastructure
strengthening, and financial sector reform. In the island
atoll DMCs (Kiribati, Marshall Islands, Nauru, and Tuvalu)
that are severely disadvantaged by their size, isolation,
and limited resource bases, ADB will support trust funds,
develop niche markets for tourism, and enhance skills
for labor export. ADB will continue to emphasize regional
cooperation.Cook Islands

Economic performance

The Cook Islands’ real GDP recorded positive growth of
3.2 percent in FY2000 (ending 30 June). Growth in tourist
numbers continued. The black pearl industry showe
growth of 6.0 percent, as did the commercial agriculture
sector at 4.0 percent. Inflation in 2000 was 2.0 percent,
compared with 1.4 percent in FY1999. Despite a trade
deficit equivalent to 53.0 percent of GDP, the curren
account ran a surplus of 5.9 percent of GDP because o
increased tourism.

Domestic policies: The budget was in surplus by New
Zealand (NZ)$2.3 million in FY2000. Tax revenues increase
by 15.3 percent, reflecting improved trading conditions
and settlement of large tax assessments. Government
expenditure increased by 7.5 percent because of increase
spending on education, health, welfare, cultural development, environmental protection, and the prioritizing of deb’
reserves. Government debt stood at 74.5 percent of GDP in
FY2000, with the Government indicating that it will be
allocating NZ$1 million each financial year to future deb
repayment. The money supply has accelerated in line with
the recent economic recovery. The principal policy issue
for the Cook Islands remains that of completing the
economic restructuring program (which was begun in 1996)
and consolidating its achievements. For private sector
development, areas requiring government attention include
tariff reform, privatization, an appropriate regulatory
framework, and review of laws and regulations affecting
the operation of markets for labor and transport services.
In view of a high incidence of noncommunicable diseases,
particularly diabetes and hypertension, public awareness
programs have been put in place.

 

ADB operations

Operational strategy: ADB's operational strategy for the Cook
Islands is to continue the ongoing reform process, as the
country moves into a phase of consolidation, by providing
timely and focused technical assistance on matters where
in-country expertise is unavailable. ADB also aims to provide
enabling environments for private sector growth. Loans and
technical assistance grants will strengthen in-country
capacities to sustain essential infrastructure and services. A
medium-term objective is to establish effective regulatory and
management frameworks in key sectors that may be shifted
to private control or management. Initiatives will be taken to
improve services in the outer island communities.

Regional and Country Highlights 107

Coe seensereseseeeresrcceeee see ese eeeeeeeooee®

Policy dialogue: Policy dialogue with the Government
focused on private sector-led development, including
enhanced participation of the private sector in providing
public utilities and the need to retain a high degree of fiscal
discipline in a period of strong economic growth. The policy
agenda included debt management and the need to prioritize
and minimize perceived requirements for increased public
sector expenditure.

Loans and technical assistance: No loans were
approved in 2000. ADB approved two advisory technical
assistance grants totaling $280,000 to prepare the Cook
Islands’ economic report and review its pension and
insurance schemes.

Project implementation: Since joining ADB in 1976,
the Cook Islands has received 11 loans, of which 2 were
active at the end of 2000. Contract awards totaled $610,000,
bringing the cumulative figure to $24.6 million. The contract
award ratio was 18.4 percent, lower than the ADB-wide
average of 21 percent. Disbursements during the year

Cook Islands
Cumulative ADB Lending
(as of 31 December 2000)

 

 

Sector No. of Loans $ Million re
Finance 3 6.0 24.5
Transport and

Communications 2 5.4 22.0
Others 1 5.0 20.4
Multisector 3 4.6 18.8
Social Infrastructure 1 27) 11.0
Agriculture and

Natural Resources 1 0.8 3.3
Total 11 24.5 100.0

Cook Islands
Lending and Disbursements, 1996-2000
($ million)
0 1 2 3 4 5
2000
1999
1998
1997
1996
M@ Lending

HE Disbursements108 ANNUAL REPORT 2000

totaled $390,000, bringing cumulative disbursements to
$22.2 million. The disbursement ratio was 28.4 percent,
higher than the ADB-wide average of 20.5 percent.

ADB's portfolio performance in the Cook Islands was
satisfactory in terms of implementation progress and
achieving development objectives. The Cook Islands
complied with the submission of audited project accounts
and financial statements, and environmental and social
covenants.

Fiji Islands

Economic performance

The economy of the Fiji Islands contracted by 9.3 percent
in 2000, reflecting the impact of unexpected political
developments in May and the associated widespread civil
unrest that followed. Manufacturing, construction, and
tourism were the worst affected. Because of weak demand,
inflation was low at 1.1 percent in 2000. Exports and imports
declined sharply, but the current account realized a modest
surplus. The capital account deficit also narrowed slightly,
largely as a result of capital controls. The balance of
payments showed a small deficit. Foreign exchange reserves
covered around six months of imports.

Domestic policies: In response to an expected
decline in government revenue of
around 15.0 percent in 2000, the new
Government implemented a minibudget in July 2000 with expenditure
being 10.0 percent lower than originally
budgeted. The revised deficit target was
equivalent to 3.5 percent of GDP. Despite these
efforts, total government
debt was 42.9 percent of
GDP in 2000. The Reserve
Bank of Fiji acted swiftly,
following the developments of May 2000, to
protect foreign exchange
reserves and the exchange
rate. A credit ceiling was
imposed on commercial
banks, interest rates were
increased, and selective
exchange controls were
imposed. Following some
improvements in the fiscal
and balance-of-payments

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  

positions, a gradual relaxation of monetary policy was
initiated in September 2000. Other key issues in the Fiji
Islands include uncertainties in the garment and sugar
industry, poor productivity in the sugar industry, and low
private sector investment.

ADB operations

Operational strategy: ADB is closely monitoring the
situation in the Fiji Islands. The medium-term focus is to
stimulate economic growth by encouraging private sector
development and export-oriented activities that support job
creation. This will involve enhancing public sector reforms,
supporting the establishment and functioning of an efficient
financial sector and capital market, promoting corporatization
and commercialization of public sector enterprises, selecting
public sector investments for infrastructure development
and poverty reduction, and addressing environment and
natural resource management concerns.

Policy dialogue: Policy dialogue with the interim
Government focused mainly on good governance,
enterprise policy reforms, cost recovery, and operation
and maintenance in the road subsector.

Loans and technical assistance: No loans were
approved in 2000. Before the political events unfolded in

May, ADB approved four advisory technical assistance
grants totaling $590,000 for preparing a mediumterm development plan, managing national debt,
reviewing Fiji Development Bank's operations,
and mapping land boundaries to harmonize

resource use.

Project implementation: Since joining ADB in 1970, the Fiji Islands has
received 13 loans, of which 1 was active
at the end of 2000.
Contract awards totaled
$1.2 million, bringing the
cumulative figure to
$116.3 million. The contract award ratio was
3.5 percent, lower than
the ADB-wide average of
21 percent. Disbursements during the year

eee eeeesceee
ADB assistance to Pacific
developing member countries
is aimed at creating an
environment that will lead
to improved productivity.Fiji Islands
Cumulative ADB Lending
(as of 31 December 2000)

 

 

Sector No. of Loans $ Million 7)
Transport and
Communications 4 78.0 48.4
Energy 3 36.9 22.9
Agriculture and
Natural Resources 3 27.6 17.1
Social Infrastructure 1 9.6 6.0
Finance 2 9.0 5.6
Total 13 161.1 100.0
Fiji Islands
Lending and Disbursements, 1996-2000
($ million)
0 2 4 6 40
2000
1999
1998
1997
1996
MS Lending

Ml Disbursements

totaled $4.6 million, bringing cumulative disbursements to
$119.2 million. The disbursement ratio was 12.0 percent,
lower than the ADB-wide average of 20.5 percent.

Nearly all ADB activities in the Fiji Islands were on hold
in 2000. Because of a prolonged wet season, the Third Road
Upgrading Project, the only ongoing project, was progressing
slowly but generally satisfactorily. The Fiji Islands complied
with the submission of audited project accounts and
financial statements, and environmental covenants were
being implemented.

Kiribati
Economic performance

Real GDP of Kiribati declined by 4.0 percent in 2000. The
Revenue Equalization Reserve Fund reached around
Australian (A)$658 million by the end of 2000, and returned
investment income was equivalent to around A$23.9 million

Regional and Country Highlights 109

eee eee eee eee ee ee

as interest and dividends, equal to 33.3 percent of GDP.
General retail prices increased by only 0.2 percent in the
12 months to October 2000. Exports declined while imports
increased, and the current account moved to a deficit of an
estimated 5 percent of GDP. However, international reserves
are extremely healthy because of the Reserve Fund of about
10 years of import cover.

Domestic policies: The overall budget deficit in 2000
is estimated at 5.3 percent of GDP, slightly lower than the
previous year, mainly because of higher-than-estimated
fishing license revenue. Current expenditure in 2000 was
A$63.8 million and development expenditure was
A$20.8 million. Current expenditure in 2000 was virtually
unchanged from 1999. External debt in 2000 was
A$14.7 million ($8.2 million US equivalent) or a relatively
modest 20.4 percent of GDP. External debt service was
1.2 percent of the exports of goods and services in 2000.
The broad money supply, as calculated from the Bank of
Kiribati balance sheet, grew by 5.0 percent in 2000. Key
policy issues identified in the National Development Strategy for 2000-2003 include reforming the public sector,
strengthening the banking sector, improving the investment
climate, rationalizing the tax and tariff systems, improving
data collection and analysis, developing human resources,
and promoting outer island development.

ADB operations

Operational strategy: ADB's operational strategy for
Kiribati is to promote sustainable growth, reduce poverty,
and improve the living standards of the people. ADB aims
to achieve these objectives by enabling the Government to
implement effectively its National Development Strategy
and to start empowering local governments. ADB operations
focus on reducing poverty, reforming the public sector,
providing social infrastructure, and developing the outer
islands.

Kiribati
Cumulative ADB Lending
(as of 31 December 2000)

Sector No. of Loans $ Million oh
Social Infrastructure 1 10.2 67.6
Transport and

Communications 2 23 15.2
Energy 2 1.6 10.6
Finance 1 1.0 6.6
Total 6 15.1 100.0110 ANNUAL REPORT 2000

Poeeceseseseereeesreeesreercecee eee eee eeeneee®

Policy dialogue: Policy dialogue with the Government included assisting the public service reform;
restructuring the Public Utilities Board; improving
sustainability of operations in the utilities subsector,
including cost recovery, and operation and maintenance;
conserving water; and protecting the environment. A
comprehensive program was prepared with ADB assistance for infrastructure improvements in water supply,
sewerage, and solid waste management. Institutional
reforms, designed to enhance the effectiveness and
efficiency in operating and maintaining public utilities,
were also identified.

Loans and technical assistance: No loans were
approved in 2000. ADB approved two technical assistance
grants totaling $500,000: an advisory technical assistance
for public sector reform and a project preparatory technical
assistance grant for outer islands development.

Project implementation: Since joining ADB in 1974,
Kiribati has received six loans, of which one was active at
the end of 2000. Contract awards totaled $2.0 million,
bringing the cumulative figure to $6.6 million. The contract
award ratio was 25.7 percent, higher than the ADB-wide
average of 21 percent. Disbursements during the year totaled
$1.1 million, bringing cumulative disbursements to
$4.8 million. The disbursement ratio was 10.7 percent,
lower than the ADB-wide average of 20.5 percent.

One loan—the Sanitation, Public Health, and Environment Improvement Project—was ongoing in 2000. After a
slow start-up, including a delay in recruiting consultants,
the Project progressed and was classified as partly
satisfactory in terms of implementation and achieving its
development objectives.

Marshall Islands

Economic performance

Real GDP in the Marshall Islands declined by about
2.3 percent in FY2000 (ending 30 September). While
government expenditure grew marginally, trade and
transportation, primary production, and manufacturing
contracted. Because of a stronger US dollar and low
domestic demand, inflation was about negative 2 percent
despite a rise in fuel prices. Exports in FY2000 increased
by 10 percent, while imports declined slightly, leading to
a trade deficit of 53 percent of GDP. However, the current
account in FY2000 was in surplus of 7.6 percent of GDP. On
the capital account, the main item was loan repayments,
which absorbed most of the current account surplus.

Domestic policies: The budget in FY2000 was in
surplus of 5.2 percent of GDP. Total government revenue
of $62.1 million was lower than the FY1999 figure, mainly
because of reduced import taxes. Fishing license fee
collections increased by 50 percent. Government expenditure in FY2000 increased slightly. Total external debt was
72 percent of GDP. The Marshall Islands had to overcome
three important structural obstacles: lack of secure leasehold
title to develop land, a complex taxation system, and
governance problems. A bill to establish registration of
development land that would be available for lease to
investors under government-guaranteed title was tabled.
Tax reform was on the policy agenda, and a review of the
taxation policy may be conducted in 2001. The Government
has also started developing a public finance management
reform program to establish clear and robust systems of
annual and medium-term budgeting, financial control,
accounting, internal audit, and reporting to Parliament.
About 600-700 new jobs per year are needed to keep up
with population growth. The Marshall Islands thus needs
to increase foreign direct investment inflows and expand
existing enterprises.

ADB operations

Operational strategy: ADB's operational strategy for the
Marshall Islands aims at assisting the Government in its
economic and financial reforms, and supporting essential
services in education, health, and water supply. Assistance
will be directed to disadvantaged women and children in
the outer islands and toward creating income-generating
skills and an enabling environment for small business
development. ADB's medium-term program will be directed
toward skills training and vocational education with poverty
reduction as a primary objective; support for sound financial
management by strengthening public finance, and
promoting the use of trust funds for long-term financial
stability; and continued assistance to the private sector. In
addition, a new country economic report will include a
development strategy for the Government, confirm the
strategic focus, and form the basis for determining ADB
operations in the Marshall Islands.

Policy dialogue: Policy dialogue with the Government
focused on enhancing economic activity and improving
financial management through fiscal discipline and
responsibility. Improving governance—especially transparency
in government decision making and increased accountability—
was an ongoing dialogue. The use of trust funds for attaining
a self-reliant economy with decreased dependence on external transfers is an important part of the overall objective.Loans and technical assistance: In 2000, ADB
approved a $6.8 million loan for a skills training and
vocational education project. ADB also approved four
technical assistance grants totaling $888,000: three advisory
technical assistance grants for developing coastal marine
resources, strengthening the Ministry of Finance, and
reviewing the health management information system; and
one project preparatory technical assistance for outer island
infrastructure development.

Project implementation: Since joining ADB in 1990,
the Marshall Islands has received nine loans, of which five
were active at the end of 2000. Contract awards totaled
$9.7 million, bringing the cumulative figure to $41.7 million.
The contract award ratio was 49.4 percent, higher than the
ADB-wide average of 21 percent. Disbursements during the
year totaled $9.8 million, bringing cumulative disbursements to $39.8 million. The disbursement ratio was
56.4 percent, higher than the ADB-wide average of
20.5 percent.

Although delays were encountered, all five ongoing
projects were generally meeting their development

Marshall Islands
Cumulative ADB Lending
(as of 31 December 2000)

 

Sector No. of Loans $ Million 7
Social Infrastructure 5 30.4 51.4
Finance 1 12.0 20.3
Multisector 2 9.8 16.6
Agriculture and

Natural Resources 1 6.9 11.7
Total 9 59.1 100.0

 

Marshall Islands

Lending and Disbursements, 1996-2000

($ million)

0 3 6 9 12

2000
1999
1998
1997
1996

Ml Lending
I Disbursements

Regional and Country Highlights 111

eee eee eee eee ee ee

objectives. Minor changes in scope were made on two
projects, and a minor change in implementation
arrangements was made on one. While sufficient counterpart
funds were available, lack of qualified counterpart staff
remained a constraint. All ongoing loan projects and
technical assistance have capacity-building components,
including project management and training. The third and
last tranche under the program loan was released in June 2000.
Compliance with the submission of audited project accounts
and financial statements continued to be an issue, and external
auditors were appointed. The environmental and social
covenants were either met or being implemented. A hands-on
approach among ministers and heads of executing agencies
has helped expedite implementation and disbursement.

Federated States of Micronesia

Economic performance

The real growth rate in FY2000 (ending 30 September) in
the Federated States of Micronesia was 2.5 percent, led by
manufacturing, construction, and transport. The Public
Sector Reform Program, implemented in the latter half of
the 1990s, facilitated a return to positive growth in 1999
and 2000. Exports more than doubled in FY2000, mainly
because of increased fish exports. Imports also increased
as growth returned to positive levels. The current account
surplus, including official transfers, declined from
$55.7 million in FY1996 to $6.5 million in FY2000 because
of a decrease in the US Compact funding level. The inflation
rate in FY2000 was estimated at 2.8 percent.

Domestic policies: The consolidated general government balance in FY2000 attained a surplus of 0.4 percent
of GDP. Total revenues were $152.8 million, of which
$96.0 million (42 percent of GDP) came as grants, including
$79.4 million from the US Compact. There were improvements at the state level, but the fiscal deficit at the national
level needs to be improved. To achieve self-sufficiency,
domestic revenue and taxation administration need to be
improved substantially. Introduction of a value-added tax
is expected to improve revenue generation. Overall, the
formal sector remained stagnant and unable to provide
sufficient employment. The number of jobs in the private sector
needs to be expanded. A policy environment for private sector
development must be put in place to attract foreign direct
investment, particularly in commercial agriculture, fisheries,
and tourism. The lowest-income households are in the outer
islands where there are few employment opportunities in the
formal sector and commercial activity is weak.112 ANNUAL REPORT 2000

Poeeceseseseereeesreeesreercecee eee eee eeeneee®

ADB operations

Operational strategy: ADB's operational strategy for the
Federated States of Micronesia reflects the Government's
development strategy of implementing economic
reforms—which was presented to the Fourth Consultative
Group Meeting in Manila in February 2000—and is
consistent with ADB's goal to reduce poverty. The strategy
will support two major complementary initiatives of
consolidated public sector reforms and private sector-led
economic growth. The needs of individual states will be
emphasized. Stronger linkages will be established with
the states’ performance and commitment to reform and
policy-related dialogue. The strategic priorities also
include improving basic social services and developing
overall economic and policy management capacity of both
national and state governments.

Policy dialogue: Policy dialogue with the Government
focuses on reforms in public financial management and
economic planning. A detailed program has been prepared
for improving basic social services delivery. Long-term

Federated States of Micronesia
Cumulative ADB Lending
(as of 31 December 2000)

Sector No. of Loans $ Million %
Finance 1 18.0 41.7
Social Infrastructure 1 10.6 24.6
Multisector 1 8.0 18.6
Agriculture and

Natural Resources 1 6.5 15.1
Total 4 43.1 100.0

 

Federated States of Micronesia
Lending and Disbursements, 1996-2000
($ million)

0 3 6 3 12 18
2000
1999
1998
1997
1996

M8 Lending
Hl Disbursements

sustainability of economic reforms and a move toward
economic self-reliance have been the major thrusts of ADB
policy-related assistance. Improving state performance
and better coordination between states and national
governments to expedite decision making and implement
well-coordinated programs nationwide were also important
aspects of the continuing dialogue.

Loans and technical assistance: In 2000, ADB
approved a $8.0 million loan for health and education. ADB
also approved two advisory technical assistance grants
totaling $800,000.

Project implementation: Since joining ADB in 1990,
the Federated States of Micronesia has received four loans,
of which three were active at the end of 2000. Contract
awards totaled $5.6 million, bringing the cumulative figure
to $29.4 million. The contract award ratio was 37.4 percent,
higher than the ADB-wide average of 21 percent. Disbursements during the year totaled $4.4 million, bringing
cumulative disbursements to $27.3 million. The disbursement ratio was 39.9 percent, higher than the ADB-wide
average of 20.5 percent.

Two projects—Fisheries Development Project and
Water Supply and Sanitation Project—were ongoing in 2000,
and an additional loan for basic social services was awaiting
effectivity. After a delayed start, the Micronesian Longline
Fishing Company component of the fisheries project was
operating satisfactorily and was profitable during the latter
half of 2000. The Kosrae State component of the Water
Supply and Sanitation Project was canceled and funds were
reallocated to components of other states. Audited project
accounts and financial statements were not always
submitted on time. The environmental and social covenants
were being implemented for both loans.

Nauru

Economic performance

No evidence exists to suggest that real GDP grew in FY2000
(ending 30 June). Profits from phosphate mining fell because
of the stronger US dollar, as the impact of changes in the
exchange rate on the cost of inputs was greater than the
impact on revenues. The only major construction project,
the Ainabare boat harbor, was completed in 2000.
However, revenue from fishing agreement license fees
registered a 60 percent increase over FY1999. Prices of
commodities rose to around 7.5 percent in FY2000 in
response to the weakening Australian dollar (A$) and
higher fuel prices.Domestic policies: In FY2000, the budget deficit was
over A$10 million or about 18 percent of GDP, almost four
imes greater than the budgeted deficit. The level of
government external debt is estimated at A$280 million.
External debt service was about 13 percent of exports of
goods and services. Total money supply declined in FY2000.
Confidence in the banking sector fell because of the weak
iquidity position of the Bank of Nauru. In 2000, liquidity
roblems were chronic and withdrawals from personal
accounts were rationed. Options to reform the banking
sector are being considered, including revising the banking
aws. Other major economic problems facing Nauru include
he imminent depletion of the primary phosphate resource
and persistent fiscal difficulties. In 1998, Nauru embarked
on the Fiscal and Financial Reform Program, supported by
an ADB loan. The Program encountered some hurdles,
ut the recently formed Nauru Committee for Development Planning is now overseeing it for more effective
implementation.

 

ADB operations

Operational strategy: ADB's operational strategy for Nauru
is to reach an economic level sustainable by available resources
and improve income-generating capability and social
indicators. ADB will provide assistance to tighten regulatory
laws and controls for offshore banking operations to minimize
dubious banking activities. ADB’s medium-term assistance will
help diversify the economy and develop the private sector
through small business development. Being the only
multilateral funding agency active in Nauru, ADB played a lead
role in assisting the country in its efforts to recover from its
financial difficulties. The major focus is to help the Government
implement the Fiscal and Financial Reform Program and
support privatization and employment-generating initiatives.

Policy dialogue: Policy dialogue with the Government
focused on improving fiscal discipline across the financial
sector and increasing transparency and accountability in
public finance. ADB encouraged the Government to create
a regulatory environment consistent with internationally
accepted standards for operating offshore banks and
companies registered in Nauru, essential to sustain reforms
and attain self-reliance.

Loans and technical assistance: No loans were
approved in 2000. ADB approved one advisory technical
assistance grant for $300,000 to strengthen the Ministry of
Finance and support the Bureau of Statistics Office.

Project implementation: Since joining ADB in 1991,
Nauru has received one program loan that was still active
at the end of 2000. No contract awards were made during

Regional and Country Highlights 113

eee eee eee eee ee ee

the year; cumulative contract awards totaled $2.3 million.
There were no disbursements during the year; total
disbursements remained at $2.3 million. Progress was made
in implementing the Fiscal and Financial Reform Program
loan, the only ongoing loan in 2000. This resulted in
considerably reducing government expenditure through a
substantial downsizing of the civil service.

Papua New Guinea

Economic performance

The rate of real GDP grew by 0.8 percent in 2000—along
with 0.9 percent growth in agriculture, forestry, and fisheries;
7.9 percent contraction in mining; and 2.0-5.0 percent
growth in other sectors. The trade balance improved in 2000
largely because of increased exports. This led to an overall
balance-of-payments surplus of 5.7 percent of GDP,
despite a large capital account deficit. In mid-2000,
foreign exchange reserves were equivalent to 2.7 months
of imports. There was considerable variability in the
exchange rate during the year. In 2000, year-on-year
inflation was 17.9 percent.

Domestic policies: The budget deficit in 2000 was
about 1.8 percent of GDP, compared with a deficit of
2.6 percent in 1999. Total public debt in 2000 was
60.8 percent of GDP, compared with 63.1 percent in 1999
and 65.8 percent in 1998. Growth of the money supply
slowed considerably in 2000, reflecting weaker economic
growth and tighter monetary policy. Despite the tight
monetary stance, interest rates declined in 2000, indicating
lower inflationary expectations and ample liquidity in the
banking system. The Government, which assumed office in
July 1999, restored macroeconomic stability in a relatively
short time, and is implementing a comprehensive structural
reform program. The key objectives of the reform program
are improving governance and public sector performance,
sustaining macroeconomic stability, and removing barriers
to investment and economic growth. A new central bank
act came into effect in June 2000, which introduces price
stability as the primary goal for monetary policy and
increases independence for the central bank.

ADB operations

Operational strategy: ADB's operational strategy for Papua
New Guinea focuses on reducing poverty through improved
governance, private sector development, and improved
social indicators. At the Government's request, ADB took114 ANNUAL REPORT 2000

Poeeceseseseereeesreeesreercecee eee eee eeeneee®

the lead in improving public sector financial management
and assisted the Government in designing and implementing
a public sector reform program that focuses on improving
performance and governance. Developing longer-term,
income-earning opportunities is a key concern that is being
addressed by support for private sector development. In
addition, ADB is supporting sector policy enhancements,
market strengthening, and market access improvements,
notably through transport infrastructure investments. The
third strategic concern is to improve social indicators,
especially for women and the poor, with emphasis on the
rural areas.

Policy dialogue: Policy dialogue with the Government
continued on the underlying issues of development
management, improving management of the road and
maritime transport subsectors, enhancing microfinance
services, sustaining town water supply and sanitation, and

Papua New Guinea
Cumulative ADB Lending
(as of 31 December 2000)

 

Sector No. of Loans $ Million ce

Transport and

Communications 12 254.7 32.9
Social Infrastructure 16 215.5 27.8
Agriculture and

Natural Resources 11 178.7 23.1
Finance 5 57.9 1
Energy 5 43.0 55
Multisector 3 16.0 2A
Industry and

Nonfuel Minerals 1 8.4 11
Total 53 774.2 100.0

 

Papua New Guinea
Lending and Disbursements, 1996-2000
($ million)

Oo 15 30 45 60 115
2000
1999 i
1998
1997
1996

Ml Lending

I Disbursements

strengthening public sector management. The need for
rational and evidence-based decision making continued to
underline dialogue.

Loans and technical assistance: In 2000, ADB
approved three loans totaling $45.5 million for maritime
navigation aids system, microfinance and employment, and
provincial towns water supply and sanitation. ADB also
approved eight technical assistance projects totaling
$3.3 million: four to provide advisory services and four to
prepare loan projects in coastal water fisheries, agroindustry, and community water transport.

Project implementation: Since joining ADB in 1971,
Papua New Guinea has received 53 loans, of which 14 were
active at the end of 2000. Contract awards totaled $23.1 million,
bringing the cumulative figure to $525.1 million. The
contract award ratio was 15.3 percent, lower than the
ADB-wide average of 21 percent. Disbursements during the
year totaled $13.0 million, bringing cumulative disbursements
to $520.8 million. The disbursement ratio was 8.8 percent,
lower than the ADB-wide average of 20.5 percent, attributed
to the approval of large projects in late 1998 and 1999.

Ongoing projects were reviewed in 2000 to ensure
continuing priorities; as a result, outstanding loans worth
$6.0 million were cancelled. The closure of two loans during
the year resulted in further cancellation of $7.4 million. ADB,
in collaboration with the Government, continued measures
to resolve problems in project implementation. ADB
reemphasized the importance of strict compliance with its
procurement and anticorruption requirements.

Samoa

Economic performance

The economy is estimated to have grown by more than
7.0 percent in 2000, dominated by construction, commerce,
and hotels and restaurants. The overall level of local food
supplies and inflows of remittances also increased. Dramatic
growth in the monetized fishing sector in recent years was
a major development. Inflation was contained at 0.5 percent
in 2000, about the same level as in the corresponding period
in 1999. Foreign exchange reserves in September 2000
equaled over six months of import cover. The overall balance
of payments remained healthy in 2000, mainly aided by
capital inflows.

Domestic policies: The FY2000 (ending 30 June)
budget ended in a deficit of 0.6 percent of GDP, the first
deficit since 1994. In mid-2000, external government debt
was around 65 percent of GDP. The debt service cost in2000 was around 7 percent of exports of goods and services.
The money supply was estimated to be 11.4 percent higher
than the previous year, reflecting the growing economy.
The banking system remained strong in terms of capitalization and continued to be profitable. However, the central
bank kept a close watch on monetary developments to
ensure that inflationary pressures were kept under control.
The Government proposed consolidating measures taken
in recent years: tax and tariff reforms, financial sector
reforms, and privatization and public enterprise reform
initiatives. Further regulation, infrastructure, and taxation
are needed for the rapid growth of the export fishing sector.

ADB operations

Operational strategy: ADB's operational strategy for
Samoa supports the Government's reform measures, which
are aimed at making the economy more private enterprisebased and competitively structured. ADB will continue to
support public sector reform and financial sector liberalization, private sector-led growth, corporatization and
privatization of state-owned enterprises, improved
management of power and infrastructure facilities,
education, and skills development.

Policy dialogue: Policy dialogue continued on
strengthening the Government's capacity in macroeconomic
management and policy formulation. ADB supported policy
initiatives to promote the development of an economic
environment conducive to business activities.

Loans and technical assistance: In 2000, ADB
approved two loans totaling $10.5 million for the education
sector and for small business development. ADB also
approved three advisory technical assistance grants totaling
$1.8 million. ADB also approved an equity investment in a
venture capital fund.

Project implementation: Since joining ADB in 1966,
Samoa has received 28 loans, of which 3 were active at the
end of 2000. Contract awards totaled $60,000, bringing the
cumulative figure to $94.5 million. The contract award ratio
was almost | percent, lower than the ADB-wide average
of 21 percent. Disbursements during the year totaled
$260,000, bringing cumulative disbursements to $90.9 million.
The disbursement ratio was 2.4 percent, lower than the
ADB-wide average of 20.5 percent. The low ratios are
attributed to a delay in the release of the second tranche
of the Financial Sector Program loan and effectivity of a
large loan close to the end of 2000.

Two loans—Education Sector Program and Financial
Sector Program—were ongoing in 2000 and were classified
as satisfactory in terms of implementation progress and

Regional and Country Highlights 115

Coe seensereseseeeresrcceeee see ese eeeeeeeooee®

Samoa
Cumulative ADB Lending
(as of 31 December 2000)

 

 

Sector No. of Loans $ Million ot
Agriculture and
Natural Resources 9 41.5 38.5
Finance 7 27.0 25.0
Energy 6 15.0 13.9
Transport and
Communications 4 13.0 12.0
Social Infrastructure 1 7.0 6.5
Multisector 1 4.4 41
Total 28 107.9 100.0
Samoa
Lending and Disbursements, 1996-2000
($ million)
0 2.5 5.0 75 10.0 12.5
2000
1999
1998
1997
1996
lM Lending

ME Disbursements

achieving their development objectives. The loan for small
business development was awaiting effectivity. The response
of the financial sector to the liberalization measures was
positive. Release of the second tranche was delayed because
two second tranche conditions had not been met.

Solomon Islands

Economic performance

In 2000, the economy contracted by about 14 percent
because of ethnic unrest and social tension. A peace
agreement was signed on 15 October 2000, paving the way
for reconstruction and rehabilitation. Because of lower
domestic demand and import prices, the end-of-period
inflation rate in 2000 was 6.6 percent. Exports declined by
about 29 percent and imports by 15 percent in US dollar
terms because of disrupted export production and low116 ANNUAL REPORT 2000

Poeeceseseseereeesreeesreercecee eee eee eeeneee®

demand for imported goods. Gross international reserves
were estimated to be $33.4 million at the end of 2000,
sufficient to cover about two months of imports.

Domestic policies: Total government earnings and tax
revenues are estimated to have fallen short of the 2000
budget estimates by over 30 percent. The overall budget
balance in 2000 was a deficit, equivalent to 4.5 percent of
GDP. The stock of central government debt at the end of
2000 reached about 75 percent of GDP, with about 60 percent
in external debt. The Government has generally managed
to meet its debt service obligations, but arrears in other
expenditure areas are rising. Total domestic credit increased
by 12 percent in the first nine months to September 2000.
Broad money grew 9.5 percent in 2000.

ADB operations

Operational strategy: The social conflict in Solomon
Islands disrupted the delivery and impact of development

Solomon Islands
Cumulative ADB Lending
(as of 31 December 2000)

 

Sector No. of Loans  $ Million %
Finance 4 30.0 37.8
Agriculture and

Natural Resources 4 20.2 25:5
Multisector 2 10.5 13.2
Energy 2 8.9 41,2:
Transport and

Communications 3 8.0 10.1
Social Infrastructure 1 17 2.2
Total 16 79.3 100.0

 

Solomon Islands
Lending and Disbursements, 1996-2000

($ million)
0.0 0.2 0.4 6.0 18.0 30.0

2000 a
1999
1998
1997
1996

MM Lending

I Disbursements

assistance during most of 2000; and from the second quarter
of the year, ADB operations were on hold. The sharp
economic downturn and the widespread devastation of
economic and social infrastructure required reformulating
ADB's operational strategy to respond to immediate needs.
Following the signing of a peace agreement in October, ADB
operations were partly resumed to facilitate emergency
rehabilitation of basic infrastructure.

Policy dialogue: Policy dialogue with the Government
focused on measures to stop revenue leakages and sustain
basic services amid the public service contraction. Dialogue
also focused on various options for promoting devolution
and local control over resources.

Loans and technical assistance: In 2000, ADB
approved one loan of $10 million for post-conflict emergency
rehabilitation. ADB also approved two technical assistance
grants totaling $800,000.

Project implementation: Since joining ADB in 1973,
Solomon Islands has received 16 loans, of which 2 were
active at the end of 2000. No contract awards were made during
the year. Cumulative contract awards totaled $53.8 million.
Disbursements during the year totaled $450,000, bringing
cumulative disbursements to $54.1 million.

One loan—Privatization of State-Owned Enterprises—
was ongoing in 2000 and was classified as satisfactory in
achieving its development objectives. The Post-Conflict
Emergency Rehabilitation was awaiting effectivity.

Tonga

Economic performance

The economy grew by 5.3 percent in FY2000 (ending
30 June), led by trade and services and supported by
increased remittances and a recovery in agriculture. Inflation rose to 5.3 percent in FY2000. The current account
recorded a deficit of 6.7 percent of GDP, while the capital
account deteriorated substantially because of declining net
private capital flows. The official capital balance recorded
a small deficit. By mid-2000, foreign exchange reserves
declined to 2.5 months’ import cover from 3.5 months in
mid-1999.

Domestic policies: Following fiscal deficits in recent
years, a surplus of 0.8 percent of GDP was achieved in
FY2000, resulting from lower capital expenditure and, to
some extent, increased tax revenues from higher imports.
Total external debt in FY2000 was estimated at $62.2 million
or 41 percent of GDP, comprising mostly concessional loans.
Monetary conditions were tightened in FY1999 and FY2000in response to official reserves losses. The tight monetary
policy resulted in a slowdown in private sector credit
growth in FY2000 from the level of 18 percent in 1998.
Broad money increased by 8.5 percent in FY2000,
following an increase of 15 percent in FY1999. Maintaining
adequate foreign exchange reserves, in light of high levels
of imports of consumer and intermediate goods, is a
challenge. Tonga’s taxation system is under review. The
system relies heavily on the taxation of trade, with high
effective rates of import duties. The planned expansion of
the sales tax reduced import duties. Eliminating the bulk of
exemptions will facilitate productive investments and lead
to a more equitable and efficient tax system. The planned
revisions to the licensing procedures for businesses should
also facilitate private sector development.

ADB operations

Operational strategy: ADB's operational strategy for Tonga
is to support reforms in economic policy, public sector
management, governance, and private sector development.
ADB continued to support the Government's development
strategy of sustainable economic growth by promoting
private sector development, to ensure equitable distribution
of development benefits and environment conservation.

Policy dialogue: Policy dialogue with the Government
continued to focus on policies to strengthen public sector
management, improve the delivery of basic public services,
promote private sector-led economic growth, enhance social
security, and improve financial sector efficiency.

Loans and technical assistance: No loans were
approved in 2000. ADB approved two advisory technical
assistance grants totaling $271,000.

Project implementation: Since joining ADB in 1972,
Tonga has received 13 loans, of which 2 were active at the
end of 2000. Contract awards totaled $740,000, bringing
the cumulative figure to $47.0 million. The contract award
ratio was 113.8 percent, higher than the ADB-wide average
of 21 percent. Disbursements during the year totaled
$2.9 million, bringing cumulative disbursements to
$41.0 million. The disbursement ratio was 81.7 percent,
higher than the ADB-wide average of 20.5 percent. The high
ratios reflect a portfolio comprised of loans in their final
stages, which is not associated with corresponding new
commitments.

The two ongoing loans—Transport Infrastructure
Project and Outer Islands Agriculture Development
Project—were classified as satisfactory in terms of
implementation progress and achieving their development objectives. Both loans complied with the submission

Regional and Country Highlights 117

Coe seensereseseeeresrcceeee see ese eeeeeeeooee®

Tonga
Cumulative ADB Lending
(as of 31 December 2000)

 

Sector No. of Loans $ Million ot
Multisector 5 11.4 26.6
Transport and

Communications 2 11.3 26.3
Energy 1 7.3 17.0
Finance 2 6.5 15.2
Agriculture and

Natural Resources 2 6.0 14.0
Industry and

Nonfuel Minerals 1 0.4 0.9
Total 13 42.9 100.0

Tonga
Lending and Disbursements, 1996-2000
($ million)
0 1 2 3 4 5
2000
1999
1998
1997
1996
lM Lending

Ml Disbursements

of audited project accounts and financial statements, and
their environmental covenants.

Tuvalu

Economic performance

Growth in 2000 is estimated to be 3 percent, led by
construction. In 2000, the inflation rate increased to
5 percent, largely because of increased airfares. The lease
of Tuvalu’s Internet domain address resulted in revenue of
A$24,.9 million, consisting of a windfall payment of
A$19.3 million and three quarterly payments totaling
A$5.6 million. For the first three quarters of 2000, a nominal
return of 17 percent, or 10 percent real return, on the Tuvalu
Trust Fund was achieved. Revenues from fishing license
fees remained stable in 2000 at over A$9.0 million. Overall118 ANNUAL REPORT 2000

Poeeceseseseereeesreeesreercecee eee eee eeeneee®

Tuvalu’s external position is sound because of these sources
of revenues.

Domestic policies: Total government revenue at
A$44 million was almost double the budget estimate for 2000
as a result of the windfall “dot” television revenue. Total
government expenditure was A$22 million, including special
development expenditure of A$8.2 million in 2000. The
main development issues are devolving administrative
responsibilities to the communities of the outer islands and
improving infrastructure and services for the outer islands.
A Falekaupule Trust Fund for island development was
invested with professional fund managers in Australia in
February 2000, with an initial capital base of A$11.2 million.
The Government is renovating and expanding the system
of water catchment and storage, and embarking on a
program of providing electricity to the outer islands. Issues
such as the structure of electricity tariffs and authority
to manage the supply of electricity in the outer islands
need to be resolved. Improved health, education, and
telecommunications in the outer islands are also areas
of concern.

ADB operations

Operational strategy: ADB's operational strategy for
Tuvalu aims to promote sustainable economic and social
development by promoting human development; reforming
the public sector, including corporatizing government
businesses; enhancing private sector development; and
improving the economic and social conditions of the outer
islands. Assisting the Government in developing the
potential for labor export is also an important task.

Policy dialogue: Policy dialogue with the Government
continued on economic and financial management, public
sector reform, and developing the outer islands.

Loans and technical assistance: No loans were
approved in 2000. ADB approved one preparatory technical
assistance grant totaling $250,000 for upgrading the Tuvalu
Maritime Training Institute.

Project implementation: Since joining ADB in 1993,
Tuvalu has received one loan. No contract awards or
disbursements were made during the year. Cumulative
contract awards to Tuvalu totaled $2.8 million and
cumulative disbursements, $2.8 million.

The ongoing loan—Island Development Program—was
classified as satisfactory in terms of implementation progress
and achieving its development objectives. Economic and
social covenants for the loan were being implemented. The
main development constraints include isolation, small and
weak institutional capacity, and limited absorptive capacity.

Vanuatu

Economic performance

The economy recovered in 2000 with an estimated growth
of 2.8 percent, following negative growth of 3 percent in
1999. The tourism and construction industries led the
recovery. Major ongoing construction projects include the
Efate ring road, expanding the main airports on Efate and
Santo, rehabilitating infrastructure damaged by Cyclone
Dani, and developing the urban infrastructure. The
agriculture sector continued to experience weakness.
Inflation, moderate in recent years, was 2.7 percent in 2000.
Despite a negative trade balance, a small surplus in the
current account was expected in 2000. However, a sizable
deficit is expected on the capital account of at least
4.0 percent of GDP in 2000.

Domestic policies: The budget deficit in 2000 reached
about 8.0 percent of GDP because of the rollover of
development projects from the 1999 budget. Controls on
recurrent expenditure were tight during the year. Total
taxation revenue for 2000 was slightly below the levels
forecast in the budget, although value-added tax collections
were in line with forecasts. External debt service was
1.3 percent of exports of goods and services. The major
monetary initiative in 2000 was reintroducing foreign
exchange guidelines. At the end of 2000, foreign exchange
reserves were estimated to cover 5.4 months of imports.
The Government's long-term objective for the overall
budget deficit is to ensure that borrowing is limited to
development expenditures and on concessional terms.
The quality and availability of infrastructure and government
services fell dramatically outside the major towns of Port
Vila and Luganville. To address this problem, an outer
island infrastructure development program—an important
component of the next phase of the Comprehensive Reform
Program—was formulated.

ADB operations

Operational strategy: ADB’s operational strategy for
Vanuatu is to continue supporting the Comprehensive
Reform Program (which ADB has supported since 1997);
promoting private sector-led growth; developing the
productive sectors, particularly agriculture and fisheries; and
providing infrastructure and social services. Crosscutting
concerns include addressing good governance, poverty,
employment, and other social issues.

The first phase of the Comprehensive Reform Program
was completed by the end of 2000; Phase II will start in 2001.Vanuatu
Cumulative ADB Lending
(as of 31 December 2000)

 

Sector No. of Loans $ Million 7)
Finance 3 26.0 50.7
Social Infrastructure 1 10.0 19.5
Transport and

Communications 2 9.2 17:9
Multisector 2 5.0 9.8
Agriculture and

Natural Resources 1 11 24
Total 9 51.3 100.0

 

Policy dialogue: Policy dialogue with the Government
focused on identifying directions to ensure sustainability of
both economic and public sector reforms. Good governance,
services delivery, sound economic and financial management, poverty reduction, and an environment favorable to
private sector investment were key issues. Continued
support to the central agencies and the State Law Office
was maintained to ensure progress in the Comprehensive
Reform Program and the check-and-balance function of
the legal sector in safeguarding good governance. Support
was provided to strengthen the function of the national
women’s council and to enhance frontline services in
education and health.

Loans and technical assistance: No loans were
approved in 2000. ADB approved three advisory and one
project preparatory technical assistance grants totaling
$1.4 million.

Project implementation: Since joining ADB in 1981,
Vanuatu has received nine loans, of which three were active
at the end of 2000. Contract awards totaled $9.5 million,

Regional and Country Highlights 119

Coe seensereseseeeresrcceeee see ese eeeeeeeooee®

Vanuatu
Lending and Disbursements, 1996-2000
($ million)

0 2 4 5 15 25
2000
1999
1998
1997
1996

M8 Lending
ME Disbursements

bringing the cumulative figure to $46.4 million. The contract
award ratio was 95.5 percent, higher than the ADB-wide
average of 21 percent. Disbursements during the year totaled
$10.6 million, bringing cumulative disbursements to
$45.7 million. The disbursement ratio was 63 percent, higher
than the ADB-wide average of 20.5 percent.

The three ongoing loans were classified as satisfactory
in terms of achieving their development objectives.
However, because of delays in recruiting consultants and
slow contract awards, one loan was classified as partly
satisfactory for implementation progress. One project
underwent two changes in scope. Some delays were
experienced with the submission of audited project accounts
and financial statements. However, efforts continued on
improving the status of compliance with other financial
covenants, such as cost recovery and tariff structure
adjustment under the Urban Infrastructure Project.
Environmental and social covenants were met.Strategic Planning and
Support Activitieshe Asian Development Bank's (ADB) vision is of an Asia and Pacific free of poverty. ADB defined this goal and

the intellectual backbone for achieving it in 1999 with the approval of the poverty reduction strategy. In 2000,

work on the broad-based operational framework to support the poverty strategy was completed. Once approved,

this long-term strategic framework will guide ADB's operational management over the next 15 years. This and
other activities in support of ADB’s objectives—such as research and development, information management, resident
missions, and external relations—are discussed in this chapter.

The planning process

ADB's planning process integrates its increasing scope of
development assistance services with its organizational
capacity to deliver those services. ADB regularly updates
the strategic framework within which it plans countryspecific operations, reviews and adjusts policies in the
context of experience and emerging needs of its developing
member countries (DMCs), and develops operational work
plans based on these strategies and policies. The planning
process establishes long-term, medium-term, and annual
business objectives; sets overall and country-specific
operational priorities; and after achieving agreement both
with client DMCs and within ADB, establishes the milestones
and road maps to follow in implementing its programs.

In 1999 and 2000, ADB undertook a major strategic
reorientation to better support the challenges confronting
its DMCs. It redesigned its business processes, placing
greater emphasis on individual country operations,
expanded stakeholder participation, and a selective and
focused approach to its program in each DMC. Also in 2000,
extensive work was undertaken to develop a long-term
strategic framework to guide ADB's work from 2001 to 2015.
Once approved, the strategic focus will be on achieving
sustainable economic growth, inclusive social development,
and good governance. Within this broad framework, ADB
will work with each DMC to develop an individual country
strategy and program with the objective of reducing poverty,
and a three-year rolling operational program to translate
the strategy into action. These country-based plans will form
the basis for ADB's overall three-year rolling work program,
which in turn will provide the framework for the annual
administrative budget.

Economics and Development
Resource Center

The Economics and Development Resource Center (EDRC)
assisted ADB's operations and services in 2000 through
policy research, methodology development, and country
economic studies and projections. In addition, EDRC helped

build the capacity of staff and DMCs principally in statistics,
project economic analysis, and financial management. It
also disseminated knowledge in collaboration with other
development agencies and regional research institutes.
EDRC aligned its core functions more closely with ADB's
main goal of reducing poverty and initiated several
institutional reforms within its three divisions.

In line with ADB's poverty reduction strategy, the
Project Economic Evaluation Division moved from its
function of conducting project reviews to placing greater
emphasis on developing methodologies for assessing
poverty impacts in project economic analysis, and to
providing analytical support and advice to projects at entry.

The reorientation of the Economic Analysis and
Research Division helped support ADB’s strategic initiatives;
fostered greater collaboration with ADB programs, projects,
and strategy and policy departments; promoted more active
participation in interagency activities and networking with
development agencies and research organizations; and
improved the quality of its economic outlook assessment.
The Division initiated research and produced a theme
chapter on information and communication technology
development for the Asian Development Outlook 2000 Update.
It also prepared the Asia and Pacific Forum on Poverty,
scheduled for February 2001.

To strengthen ADB's knowledge and information base
and augment its policy research capacity for addressing
evolving development requirements, EDRC began networking with development agencies and regional research
institutes and formed an interagency advisory group. EDRC’s
publications program was reviewed by an interdepartmental
panel to strengthen its operational relevance and ensure
that research results are widely disseminated in the
development community (see page 276 for recent titles). As
a result, the analyses of economic projections in Asian
Development Outlook 2000 and its Update, one of ADB's
flagship publications, are being strengthened.

The Statistics and Data Systems Division was also
reoriented toward supporting the operationalization of the
poverty reduction strategy. To this end, the content of ADB's
statistical database system is being broadened to include
poverty and social statistics, and the frequency of data122 ANNUAL REPORT 2000

Poeeceseseseereeesreeesreercecee eee eee eeeneee®

collection is being increased to provide timely
support for economic and sector work and
projections. The statistical capacity-building
activities in 2000 also emphasized poverty
analyses and data gathering. A technical
working group was established in September
to review the structure and content of
ADB's statistical database to improve its
user-friendliness and usefulness to ADB and
its DMCs. The review is expected to be
completed in 2001.

Eleven major methodology and policy
research studies were conducted in 2000:
(i) pro-poor growth and institutional
constraints on poverty reduction in the DMCs, (ii) measuring
and monitoring poverty, (iii) distributional and poverty
impact assessment of ADB projects, (iv) impact of transport
and other infrastructure investments on poverty and growth,
(v) developing a framework for designing and implementing
policy-based lending that emphasizes the participatory process
in economic policy formulation, (vi) linkages between
policy-based lending and poverty reduction, (vii) updating the
guidelines for preparing and presenting financial analysis of
projects, (viii) international competitiveness of Asian
economies, (ix) developing government bond markets in
selected DMCs, (x) role of educational decentralization in
promoting effective schooling in selected DMCs, and
(xi) information and communication technology development.

Major capacity-building activities included in-house
training and workshops for DMC officials in project
economic analyses and financial governance. Training was

O

Diffe

     

king a

in Asi
the Pacific”

enhanced with the completion of the CD-ROM
(compact disc read only memory) on the Guidelines for the Economic Analysis of Projects, good
practice examples, and other training materials
and tutorials. Capacity building and institutional
strengthening in statistics for DMCs focused on
improving DMC census capability; compiling
national account data; and developing poverty,
environmental, financial, and monetary
statistics. Working with the ADB Institute and
the Colombo Plan Secretariat, EDRC also
provided capacity building in taxation, international finance, small and medium enterprise
development, and capital market development.

Knowledge dissemination activities also strengthened
interagency collaboration and networking with regional
research institutes. Major conferences and seminars
organized in 2000 included the Asia Development Forum
(see page 123); participation in the Economic and Social
Commission for Asia and the Pacific Regional Consultative
Meeting on Financing for Development; the Joint
ADB-Organisation for Economic Co-operation and
Development (OECD) Conference on Asian Perspectives; the
Thirteenth Workshop on Asian Economic Outlook; the
Workshop on Harmonizing and Improving Business
Tendency Surveys; Monetary and Financial Statistics and
Rebasing and Linking National Accounts Statistics; and the
International Training Program on Environment Statistics.

The Distinguished Speakers’ Program focused on
information and communication technology and the digital
divide. Modest financial contributions were given to the East

rence
ia and

Regional Economic Monitoring in 2000

ADB's Regional Economic Monitoring Unit, established in
1999 in response to the Asian financial crisis, assists its
developing member countries in harnessing the full benefits
of global financial integration and international capital
flows, while minimizing any disruptive effects. The Unit supports the Association of Southeast Asian Nations (ASEAN)
and the ASEAN plus 3 (People’s Republic of China, Japan,
and Republic of Korea) surveillance process, and houses
the Asia Recovery Information Center (ARIC) web site.

In 2000, the Unit prepared various reports drawn from
high frequency information (weekly, monthly, and quarterly)
produced in the public and private sectors, including two
each of the ASEAN Economic Outlook and the East Asian
Economic Outlook. The inaugural issue of the Asia Recovery
Report was prepared and posted on the ARIC web site, and
two subsequent issues were also made available on-line.

The Unit hosted a workshop on monitoring private capital
flows within East Asia, and produced a summary of the
workshop proceedings and proposals for future collaboration on capital flows monitoring.

Six officials seconded to the Unit in 2000 from the
ASEAN ministries of finance and central banks were trained
in methods of economic monitoring. The Unit assisted in
establishing surveillance units in the ministries of finance
of Indonesia, Philippines, and Thailand to develop the
in-house capacities needed to respond to their obligations
under the ASEAN surveillance process.

Work on the ARIC web site continued in 2000. To
strengthen its function as a knowledge portal, two new
sections—ARIC Policy Forum and Editorials/Opinion—were
launched. In May 2000, the web site was rated as one of the
“Best of the Web” by Forbes Magazine.Asian Economic Association, Hong Kong Economic
Association, and the American Committee on Asian Economic
Studies to strengthen their research and dissemination
activities. ADB’s representation in the international policy and
development community was also strengthened through
more frequent participation by senior staff in high-profile
international conferences.

EDRC and ADB Institute complement each other's work,
with the former focusing on emerging policy issues and
operational support, the latter on long-term development
issues, and both working closely in capacity-building
activities. In 2000, EDRC staff were often invited to ADB
Institute as resource speakers, and the outputs of EDRC’s
policy studies and analytical work were used as background
materials for ADB Institute's capacity-building activities. In
addition, they jointly conducted two capacity-building
activities: (i) the Tenth Tax Conference and (ii) the Tenth
Seminar on International Finance.

Asian Development Bank Institute

The Tokyo-based ADB Institute carries out innovative
development research and provides capacity building and
training for middle- to top-level policymakers and officials of
development institutions from ADB's DMCs. In 2000, the
Institute continued to explore postcrisis development for Asia
through an overarching paradigm-organizing matrix covering
the broad areas of development paradigms for Asia,
strengthening financial and foreign exchange markets, sustaining Asian competitiveness, and new challenges for the public
sector. Because the Institute began operations just after the
Asian crisis, its research agenda has focused particularly on
the financial and foreign exchange markets. In 2000, research
included identifying the nature of the crisis while preventing
the occurrence of another, assessing the relationship between
financial market structure and development and the financial
crisis, strengthening banks and capital markets in crisis-hit
economies, sequencing financial market liberalization, and
reforming corporate governance in crisis-hit East Asia.

Preventing another crisis: The Asian Policy Forum—
established in December 1999—is a regionwide mechanism
for enhancing intellectual and analytical leadership among
Asian policy-making communities. The Forum brings
together leading researchers to provide policy recommendations on the most challenging development issues
confronting Asian policymakers.

With the Institute as secretariat, the Forum operates
in six-month cycles—from selecting a key policy issue and
conducting literature reviews, analyses, and international

Strategic Planning and Support Activities 123

eee eee eee eee ee ee ee ee

workshops, to developing policy recommendations that
reflect the broad views of the Forum membership. At the
end of each cycle, policy recommendations are issued,
accompanied by a technical background paper and
additional supporting documents such as country reports.

The first Forum cycle focused on how to prevent another
capital account crisis. The resulting policy recommendations
were discussed and disseminated at ADB’s Annual Meeting
in Chiang Mai, Thailand, in May 2000; at the Asia Development
Forum in Singapore in June; and at the International Finance
Seminar conducted in Singapore in October with ADB and
the Technical Cooperation Directorate, Ministry of Foreign
Affairs, Singapore. Additional dissemination activities at the
policymakers’ level took place in People’s Republic of China,
India, Indonesia, Pakistan, and Philippines.

Based on the success of the first cycle, the Institute
launched in September 2000 a second Forum on the conceptual
and technical underpinnings on how to develop the corporate bond market. The final report and related technical
background papers are expected to be presented at ADB's
Annual Meeting in Hawaii, United States, in May 2001.

Financial market structures and development: In
May 2000, ADB Institute and the Wharton School of the
University of Pennsylvania held a high-level workshop on
the development of financial markets in Asia. Two dozen
policymakers and academics considered the nature of
financial crises, and measures to prevent them and mitigate
double mismatches; comparisons of bank-based and
market-based financial systems; the role of corporate bond
markets; and law and corporate governance, including
investor protection, financial market development, and
economic growth. The Institute also organized a workshop
in September 2000 on External Environment and the
Sustainability of the East Asian Recovery, where 20 senior
officials from crisis-affected economies explored scenarios
for the global economy and their possible impact on the
Asian economic recovery.

Capital market and bank reforms: A Tokyo roundtable in April 2000 was the second in a series of meetings
to discuss future initiatives in capital market reforms in Asia,
attended by senior executives of Asian economic regulatory
organizations who are members of the International
Organization of Securities Commissions, and their
colleagues from OECD and ADB member countries. This
meeting focused on progress reports on reform and the
development of bond markets. Key themes emerged on the
need to develop domestic bond markets to overcome an overreliance on bank financing, particularly short-term bank
financing; establish robust systems for issuing, trading, clearing
and settlement, market surveillance and enforcement, and124 ANNUAL REPORT 2000

Poeeceseseseereeesreeesreercecee eee eee eeeneee®

credit ratings; and pursue other financial reforms,
particularly banking reforms. Midyear, the Institute joined
the Financial Supervisory Agency of Japan in organizing
the second high-level conference on bank regulation for
crisis-affected economies. Top bankers from Asia reviewed
the progress of postcrisis bank restructuring with their
counterparts from Europe, Japan, United States, and the
Bank for International Settlements, and addressed issues
related to family businesses and corporate governance of
Asian banks, and supervisory practices in the age of
information technology-based banking.

Capacity-building and training achievements: ADB
Institute held, as planned, 17 capacity-building and training
activities in 2000. Two additional programs were conducted:
(i) High-Level Policy Seminar on Lessons from the Asian
Crisis and Its Implications for Cambodia, jointly with ADB's
Cambodia Resident Mission; and (ii) a workshop on Regional
Arrangements for Strengthening Financial Architecture for
Asia under the Asia Development Forum, jointly with ADB,
the World Bank Institute, the Institute of Southeast Asian
Studies, and the Government of Singapore.

The 19 capacity-building and training activities
benefited nearly 860 participants (20 percent were women)
from 45 developed and developing countries. The Institute
achieved nearly 4,500 participant-days of completed
activities, compared with the 3,000 originally envisaged.

To disseminate ADB Institute’s work to a broader
audience, summaries of the proceedings of all capacity-building
and training activities and two books were prepared and
distributed in hard copy and posted on ADB Institute’s web
site (see page 276 for recent titles). The Institute also deepened
its collaboration with ADB by cooperating with several
departments for the first time in conducting its programs.

Reducing poverty: In December, in commemoration
of its third anniversary, ADB Institute held a high-level
symposium on development paradigms and poverty
reduction. The symposium identified new issues in this
development goal and helped determine the thrust of the
Institute in the area of poverty research.

Many capacity-building activities in 2000 were
realigned to address poverty reduction issues, and some
were designed to focus exclusively on poverty reduction.
One such activity was the high-profile Shanghai Mayors’
Forum on the theme of fighting urban poverty. In addition,
a special seminar for government officials on reducing
poverty was organized jointly by the Institute and ADB's
Poverty Reduction Unit in November.

Administrative highlights: Development of ADB
Institute’s library, and information and communication
technology capacity proceeded steadily in 2000, and

included procuring three major on-line journal and news
libraries that provide at-desk access to more than 1,500
full-text serial subscriptions. The library also introduced its
on-line catalog (all ADB Institute publications can be
accessed free of charge at http://www.adbi.org).

As of 31 December 2000, ADB Institute had a staff of
30, comprising 14 professional staff members and 16 staff
members in support functions. There were 11 visiting
scholars and 13 research associates throughout the year.
The new advisory councilors for the Institute (see Appendix 5)
were appointed for two-year terms.

Resident and regional missions
and representative offices

ADB's field offices in 2000 included resident missions, a
regional mission, a country office, extended missions, and
representative offices. Each supported ADB's objective of
reducing poverty by strengthening representation in its
regional and nonregional members, and by providing
broader and more direct access to its constituencies.

Resident missions

ADB's Resident Mission Policy, approved by the Board of
Directors in February 2000, outlines the framework and
strategic orientation of the resident missions. To enable the
resident missions to contribute more effectively to ADB's
support to its DMCs, the Policy advocates closer interaction
with DMC stakeholders and intensified in-country activities.

In 2000, the resident missions provided the primary
operational interface between ADB and the host DMC. The
missions helped implement ADB's goal of reducing poverty
and related strategic objectives in the DMCs and enhanced
policy dialogue with the DMCs. They were the recognized
intellectual resource and knowledge base on development
issues in the DMCs. The resident missions also created
strong partnerships with DMC development stakeholders,
including governments, the private sector, and civil society;
enhanced ADB's responsiveness to local needs and issues;
took the lead in aid coordination where possible; and
promoted subregional cooperation.

The work of the resident missions was grouped into
two broad categories: standard and specific functions.
Standard functions are those that the resident missions
perform as ADB's principal representatives in the field:
promoting relationships with government, civil society,
and the private sector; engaging in policy dialogue and
support; reporting on country activities; coordinating aid;and assisting in external relations and information
dissemination. For example, several missions (Cambodia,
indonesia, and Viet Nam) maintained close contacts with
nongovernment and research organizations. The Viet Nam
Resident Mission ensured that ADB, for the first time, was
joint author of the Viet Nam Development Report 2001, which
was submitted to the Consultative Group meeting held in
Hanoi in 2000. In the area of information dissemination,
several resident missions maintained web sites in 2000; and
others (Bangladesh, India, Kazakhstan, and Pakistan)
roduced newsletters. Others (the People’s Republic of China
PRC] and Nepal) worked to increase ADB's exposure in the
international and domestic media.

The specific functions carried out by the missions relate
o delivering and implementing ADB projects. More complex
and resource intensive, these functions include country
rogramming, project and technical assistance processing,
ortfolio management and project administration, and
economic and sector work and analyses. In 2000, several
resident missions (Bangladesh, Cambodia, PRC, Indonesia,
and Lao People’s Democratic Republic [Lao PDR]) assumed
responsibility for country programming. The Bangladesh
country assistance plan for 2001-2003 was prepared for the
first time entirely by the Bangladesh Resident Mission. The
Indonesia Resident Mission assumed full responsibility for
country planning and programming, and processed the first
project by a resident mission—the Technological and
Professional Skills Development Sector Project. The
Kazakhstan Resident Mission prepared the country assistance
plan and processed an advisory technical assistance.

ADB had 13 resident missions in 2000, one each in
Bangladesh, Cambodia, PRC, India, Indonesia, Kazakhstan,
Kyrgyz Republic, Lao PDR, Nepal, Pakistan, Sri Lanka,
Uzbekistan, and Viet Nam. ADB also
had extended missions (nonpermanent
representation) in Papua
New Guinea and Thailand.
Preparatory work to establish resident missions in
Mongolia and Thailand
was ongoing.

 

The PRC Vice
Minister of Finance
Jin Liqun (left) and
ADB President
Tadao Chino
opened the PRC
Resident Mission in
Beijing in 2000.

  
  
  
 
  
  
  

Strategic Planning and Support Activities 125

eee eee eee eee ee ee ee ee

Regional mission

The South Pacific Regional Mission in Port Vila, Vanuatu, liaises
with the eight member nations: Cook Islands, Fiji Islands,
Kiribati, Samoa, Solomon Islands, Tonga, Tuvalu, and Vanuatu.
In 2000, the Regional Mission assisted with administering loan
and technical assistance projects; promoted relationships with
governments, civil society, and bilateral and multilateral
funding agencies; undertook activities relating to country
programming, processed new loan and technical assistance
projects, and managed portfolios; provided economic and other
inputs for ADB’s policy, project, and institutional development
in the region; disseminated information about ADB activities;
and promoted private sector development.

Country office

In 2000, ADB opened the Philippines Country Office in its
headquarters in Manila to strengthen its partnership with the
Government, civil society, and stakeholders, and to improve
the effectiveness of its operations in the Philippines. The Office
will strengthen ADB's client orientation and be more responsive
to the needs of the Philippines by providing a more focused
communication channel to address country issues. Staff will
coordinate the design and implementation of ADB projects;
monitor and analyze the economic and social situation;
prepare strategies for reducing poverty; and pursue policy
dialogue with the Government and stakeholders.

Special liaison office

In 2000, ADB established the Special Liaison Office in East
Timor to provide field support to ADB staff traveling to
East Timor and help in project
processing and implementation. To
facilitate ADB activities in East
Timor and assist
executing agencies
in ADB projects, the
Office strengthened its dialogue
with the transitional administration and
East Timorese
leadership, and
coordinated
closely with collaborating funding agencies.126 ANNUAL REPORT 2000

Poeeceseseseereeesreeesreercecee eee eee eeeneee®

Representative offices

ADB has representative offices in Europe (Frankfurt), Japan
(Tokyo), and North America (Washington, DC). In 2000, the
offices helped raise ADB's profile with key interest groups and
the public at large, and enabled ADB to communicate more
effectively and in a more timely manner with the development
community, businesses, academics, and nongovernment
organizations. Other important functions included disseminating information and improving public relations through their
respective newsletters; fulfilling speaking engagements; and
making media arrangements. Each office also strengthened
ADB's representation in its donor member countries and
assisted in its resource mobilization efforts by promoting
cofinancing with official and commercial sources. Each also
promoted greater awareness in the private sector of development trends and opportunities in Asia and the Pacific, leading
to increased investment within the region and in ADB-assisted
projects and programs.

Information management

Information systems and technology

The implementation of ADB's Information Systems and
Technology Strategy for 1998-2002 continued in 2000 when
the high-speed fiber-optic backbone and state-of-the-art
networking equipment, installed at ADB's headquarters in
1999, were placed in operation and fine-tuned. The server
infrastructure for file and print services, E-mail, and
document archival was consolidated and made scalable to
provide for any unforeseen increases in workload. Scalable
and powerful intranet and Internet servers were also
installed as was the hardware infrastructure necessary to
support the INTEGRA project (box at right). The Society for
Worldwide Interbank Financial Telecommunications
(SWIFT) electronic funds transfer system was upgraded, and
security hardware and software were installed to connect
it to the ADB-wide network.

Formalized contract arrangements were made with all
telecommunications providers to obtain service-level
agreements and lower pricing. The capacity of ADB’s
Internet connection was increased fourfold. Two videoconferencing facilities were installed in headquarters, and
videoconferencing from the desktop over the ADB-wide
network was prototyped. The availability and use of remote
dial-in connectivity to the network by mission travelers and
resident missions without direct data links to the network
were greatly increased.

In support of the Resident Mission Policy, data links
between headquarters and seven resident missions were
either newly installed or upgraded. New or upgraded server
and local area network facilities were installed in 11 resident
missions. Videoconferencing facilities were made available
to nine resident missions and representative offices, and
internal telephone exchange systems were installed in six.
Low-cost international direct dialing facilities were provided
to all resident missions and representative offices with direct
connections to the headquarters telephone exchange system.

Records and Archives

ADB's Records Center maintains department files and
records not required for daily use. A records protection
program within the Records Center allows microfilming of
vital records and dispersal to off-site storage, to ensure that
ADB's operations will continue during emergencies.

The Archives preserves and makes available records
of permanent value on ADB's history. In 2000, the Archives
acquired and appraised 15,000 textual records; 33,000
photographs, slides, and negatives; 300 films and videos;
and 1,300 sound recordings. An on-line archival retrieval
service allowed staff to access documents electronically
through an image scanning system.

INTEGRA

INTEGRA is the project that will replace ADB’s major
computer systems with an integrated, web-enabled
environment. It forms a significant part of ADB's
Information Systems and Technology Strategy for 1998—
2002. With INTEGRA, ADB will strengthen its ability to
deliver development services. In addition to introducing
modern technology, INTEGRA focuses ADB efforts on
streamlining, automating, and integrating business
processes. The end result will be to provide more timely
and up-to-date information for decision making within
ADB and for external users. Staff, borrowers, donors, and
other external users will be able to access relevant data
electronically from anywhere in the world through data
communications links.

INTEGRA was launched in 1999 to provide an
integrated software solution for ADB's human resources,
finance, and project/product operations. The first phase of
the business process review and design was completed in
2000. ADB will start to see the impact of the new systems
with the implementation of the human resources and
finance modules in 2001 and the project/product module
in 2002.Library

The Library, with a collection of approximately 200,000 volumes, is ADB’s knowledge resource center for printed and
electronic information. It provides research assistance in
all disciplines related to ADB's strategic objectives,
programs, and projects. The collection specializes in
development economics, key economic sectors, and the
countries of Asia and the Pacific. Sectoral emphasis includes
agriculture, energy, finance, environment, law, transport
and communications, and social infrastructure.

A full range of library services supports ADB's poverty
reduction agenda. In addition, educational institutions and
individual researchers from around the world make regular
use of the Library's collections and services via the Internet,
telephone, or fax inquiries, or in-person visits. On-line
services and access continued to be enhanced in 2000.

The Library and the Learning Resources Center (LRC)
merged in October 2000 to provide unified access to all
materials and assist ADB staff in their continuous learning
and upgrading of skills. Merging the Library and the LRC
will also facilitate the transition to E-learning and distancelearning activities within ADB and its projects.

External relations activities

The primary roles of the Office of External Relations (OER)
are to provide information to the public and improve awareness
and understanding of ADB's objectives and operations,
particularly its determination to reduce poverty in Asia and
the Pacific. The Office is guided by policies on information
dissemination approved by the Board of Directors in 1994.
These effectively require nearly all information on ADB's policy
and public sector work to be in the public domain.

In 2000, ADB strengthened its external relations
capability. Greater efforts were made in several directions
to raise ADB’s international profile. Media relations were
key to successful projection of ADB’s messages. OER met
regularly with journalists and arranged interviews with
Management and staff, who were provided with media training.
It issued news releases, organized press conferences, and
placed articles in newspapers, magazines, and other
journals. Outreach efforts with nongovernment organizations (NGOs) were expanded. At ADB's Annual Meeting
in Thailand, OER ran a media center for more than
460 journalists. For the launch of the Asian Development
Outlook 2000, it held press conferences and presentations
in Bangkok and several other Asian cities, and in Europe.

ADB: Fighting Poverty in Asia and the Pacific

Strategic Planning and Support Activities 127

eee eee eee eee ee ee ee ee

It also gave media support to the replenishment negotiations for the Asian Development Fund.

ADB's web site (http://www.adb.org) proved of
increasing importance in ADB's external relations work. In
2000, the site was redesigned and expanded. Complementary
sites were opened for several overseas offices, and a special
section was introduced on ADB's antipoverty work. The
complete annual reports of the past three years were put
on-line as were many other ADB publications and
documents, including all country assistance plans and nearly
all reports and recommendations of the President.

External relations were fostered also by OER’s
involvement in speech writing and delivery. Its Speakers’
Bureau matched ADB speakers with events, and many
academic and business groups visiting headquarters were
provided with multimedia briefings. OER also participated
in book fairs and exhibits.

OER’s Publications Unit and Public Information Center
continued to play an important part in increasing awareness
and understanding of ADB's work. Fifty-five publications
for commercial distribution were produced in 2000, as were
numerous information brochures, the quarterly newsmagazine, ADB Review, and fact sheets on members. The
Publications Unit also distributes ADB documents as part
of the disclosure policy. More than 2,000 documents were
sent to NGOs alone in 2000. For a list of recent titles of ADB
publications, see page 276.

The Publications Unit is also the dispatch point for the
Depository Library Program, a worldwide network of some
146 libraries (details can be found on ADB's web site) that
offers the public free access to ADB documents and
publications. Seven libraries joined the
program in 2000.

OER also provided extensive
video and photographic services.
Four new videos were produced in
2000 focusing on poverty reduction,
and about 90 photography assignments were undertaken.

OER also has an important internal
communications function. Aside from
disseminating news releases to staff,
it produced the quarterly Bank Forum,
the Weekly Press Review, and the Daily
News Digest. It also gave advice and
support on the staging of events within
and outside ADB, such as ADB's
anniversary celebration.Administrationital to the success of the Asian Development Bank's (ADB) operations is the efficient administration of its
programs and activities. In 2000, work procedures were streamlined and strengthened, the staff skills mix was
broadened, and more field offices were opened—all in support of ADB's principal objective to reduce poverty
in its developing member countries (DMCs). This chapter reviews the measures taken to ensure efficient operations,

including the internal audit and anticorruption functions.

Human resource management,
training, and development

In 2000, human resource programs and activities were
targeted at supporting ADB’s operational agenda on poverty
reduction, private sector development, policy development
and reforms, and institutional capacity building; addressing
the growing needs of the field offices in line with the Resident
Mission Policy; developing and implementing strategies to
achieve balanced staff composition in terms of skills,
nationality, gender, and age; improving delivery of training
and development programs and staff services; and initiating
change management programs as part of the human
resource management information system.

A major challenge was to identify and meet the skills
requirements in support of ADB's goal to reduce poverty in
the region, a challenge that was met by closely coordinating
ADB's Human Resources Division and its operational
divisions and by involving operational staff in the selection
process. Targeted training and development programs

included a seminar series on
module on poverty reduction, s!
related topics, and a series of Al
iarize staff with the strategies that

The approval of the Resident
2000 expanded the role of the fie
formulation of supporting human

macroeconomics with a
ort seminars on povertyDB-wide forums to familsupport poverty reduction.
Mission Policy in February
id offices. This required the
resource policy initiatives,

 

including clarifying the roles an

responsibilities of staff in

 

the field offices, improving the selection process for staff
assigned from headquarters to the offices, and identifying and
delivering related training and development. Action plans were
formulated in 2000 for implementation in 2001.

ADB continued to implement its nine-point Gender Action
Plan to achieve gender balance within its professional staff;
revised external recruitment and selection process for
professional staff and revised selection system for supporting
staff to ensure transparency; and desired skills-mix profile by
redeploying positions and recruiting staff with broad-based

multidisciplinary backgrounds and/or special skills in
poverty reduction, economics, and financial management.

With regard to staff development, training modalities were
structured along technical, managerial, and supervisory needs.
Staff enhanced their technical competencies by participating
in seminars on privatization and commercialization, financial
analysis and management, financial management in the
resident missions, the Certification of Financial Analysts Study
program, mission leader mentoring program, commercial
cofinancing instruments, financial restructuring, and macroeconomics. New training initiatives included fraud detection,
gender and poverty, and Internet web site design. Managerial
and supervisory competency-based programs were developed
for both professional and supporting staff, and included
supervisory training for senior supporting staff, mission
leadership program, managerial focus groups, new manager
training, and communications training. Innovative methods
to enhance training included hub training in which training
events in specified field offices were made accessible to other
field offices within the region. In support of ADB's Career
Management Policy, an in-house Masters in Business Administration program is ongoing. In addition, staff members were
trained to cope with the challenges of the integrated software
package to be introduced in 2001 (see box on page 126).

To enhance the relationship with member governments
and familiarize their officials with ADB's policies and
procedures, the annual orientation program of DMC officials
was again offered to about 30 participants.

At the end of 2000, ADB had a staff of 2,058 coming
from 47 of its 59 members. The total comprised
732 professional staff members! and 1,326 supporting staff
members,” of which 228 staff? or about 11 percent were
located in 18 field offices. During the year, there were
92 appointments and 45 departures of professional staff
members, while 91 supporting staff members joined ADB,
and 53 left. The number of women professional staff
increased from 151 or 22 percent at the end of 1999, to 184 or
25.1 percent of total professional staff at the end of 2000.

1 Includes Management, ie., the President and Vice-Presidents; Directors’ Advisors; staff on secondment and special leave without pay; and staff

on loan to the ADB Institute
2 Includes staff on special leave without pay.

3 Includes 54 professional staff, 57 national officers (locally recruited professional staff), and 117 supporting staff.130 ANNUAL REPORT 2000

Compensation

A 6.1 percent salary increase was approved for professional
staff effective 1 January 2001. A comprehensive review of
the Supporting Staff Compensation System was completed,
following which a 10.2 percent salary increase was approved,
effective 1 April 2000.

The review of the terms and conditions of assignment
of professional staff to field offices was also completed for
implementation in January 2001. Also in 2000, there was
continued emphasis on providing health education and costeffective medical services to staff members.

Administrative services

Several measures were undertaken in 2000 in line with ADB's
continuing efforts to streamline business processes, simplify
work procedures, and implement automation enhancements.
These included integrating the databases in the records center
and archives, thereby accelerating information access;
implementing a lump-sum scheme for shipping household
goods and personal effects, giving staff greater flexibility to
manage their own shipments; and streamlining management
of the office supplies store and outsourcing more transportation
requirements, resulting in cost saving. A new server-based
software system in the commissary improved inventory and
procurement management. Process and systems improvements were also introduced in various functional areas
including enhancing security measures, introducing digital
printing technology, and implementing a long-term supply
contract for the procurement of recurring items.

Budget

Actual internal administrative expenses (IAE) for 2000
amounted to $204.9 million, a saving of $10.5 million against
the original budget of $215.4 million. The saving resulted
mainly because of depreciation of the Philippine currency,
lower-than-budgeted expenses for the 33 Annual Meeting
and for staff costs, net savings realized in various
operational and administrative expenses, and not using
the 1 percent general contingency. Effective

eee eeeceerccnces
Participation of stakeholders empowers them and makes
them committed to manage, implement, and sustain
development projects. An ADB staff member listens to a
woman from the Lao People’s Democratic Republic.

budgetary monitoring and efficiency measures continued
to have a positive effect on budgetary resource management and cost containment.

The IAE budget for 2001 of $226.9 million (summarized
in Appendix 9) was formulated to provide ADB with an
improved and expanded capacity to implement its strategic
priorities and deliver related outputs and services in a timely
manner, without compromising quality or development
impact. Consequently, the budget increase in 2001 over the
2000 budget is mainly associated with the provision of
30 new and additional professional staff positions. The 2001
budget also gives priority to implementing the Resident
Mission Policy, improving information and communication
technology services, and providing for the Inspection
Function. Against the increase in staff resources, ADB has
continued its cost-effectiveness measures, staff
redeployment efforts, skills-mix improvement, and business
process reforms.

From 2001, ADB will include, as part of the annual
budgetary process, a capital budget that incorporates items
of a cyclical and regular nature. This will supplement the
existing capital expenditure program for items that are
significant or policy related. For 2001, the annual capital budget
totals $3.5 million, mainly earmarked for improving the
headquarters building infrastructure, replacing microcomputers and peripherals, and upgrading the network and
information and communication technology infrastructure.

Audit and anticorruption

The Office of the General Auditor (OGA) conducts periodic,
independent, and objective appraisals of ADB activities
to ensure the adequacy and effectiveness of controls, and
to identify the means for improving economy and
efficiency in the use of
resources in carrying outADB's development mission. OGA is also the focal point in
ADB's drive against corruption and for dealing with alleged
incidents of corruption or fraud in its projects or by its staff.
OGA reports directly to the President. The Audit Committee
of the Board of Directors reviews OGA’s activities.

Project-related audits conducted in 2000 led to
recommendations for enhancing effectiveness and efficiency in the review of audited
project accounts (APAs) and financial statements (FSs) submitted by executing agencies;
implementing revisions to the Project
Performance Report to enhance its effectiveness as a tool for monitoring submission of
APA/FS, for following up with executing
agencies regarding significant disclosures in
the auditor's report, and for monitoring
completion of scheduled processes during
project implementation; and formulating
appropriate guidelines for the procurement,
utilization, and disposal of vehicles and other
equipment for technical assistance projects.
OGA audited several consultant's contracts in 2000 with
he assistance of appointed auditors. These audits resulted
in more effective procedures for selecting consultants for
ADB-financed technical assistance projects.

Audits of administrative and financial areas of ADB
rovided recommendations for implementing more effective
and economical measures of procurement at the
commissary, and improving accounting and control of
inventory of goods; strengthening internal controls relating
o the receipt of procured library materials and to the request
for payment of same, and for expediting the automation of
issuance and return of materials in ADB's library; enhancing
he effectiveness and efficiency of procedures within the
Food Services Unit relating to the payment of the monthly
subsidy to the contractor, physical inventory taking, and
rocurement of supplies; and improving the monitoring and
liquidation procedures for travel claims at the ADB Institute.

The review of mainframe computer fallback facilities
resulted in a recommendation to adopt procedures for
restoring mainframe computer services at the fallback site
in the event of unexpected interruption at the headquarters
building and for implementing appropriate security
measures against fire and unauthorized access at the
fallback site.

ADB's Anticorruption Unit, established in 1999, is the
point of contact for reporting allegations of fraud and
corruption among ADB-financed projects or its staff. The
Unit has investigated several allegations of fraud and
corruption; in all, the sources of allegations are treated with

F9
Pove

Asia

 

 

“ADB:

hting

he) Pacific”

Administration 131

eee eee eee eee ee ee ee ee ee ee

the utmost confidentiality and discretion. The procedures
followed by the Unit in its investigations and the results
thereof can be found at http://www.adb.org/anticorruption.
The Unit carried out one project procurement-related audit
in a selected DMC in 2000. In coordination with ADB's
Human Resources Division, the Unit conducted seminars
on the Anticorruption Policy for new staff,
2 and developed training materials and
” conducted fraud awareness seminars for
3 ADB staff, officials from executing agencies,

and other parties.

OGA continued to supervise two longterm regional training programs involving
the Asian Organization of Supreme Audit
Institutions and the South Pacific
Organization of Supreme Audit Institutions,
and a technical assistance for upgrading the
accounting and auditing capability of the
Government of the People’s Republic of
China. A regional technical assistance to
strengthen the capability of government
auditors of three Central Asian republics to conduct audits
and to deter fraud and corrupt practices in ADB projects
was approved in 2000. Close liaison with Supreme Audit
Institutions and multilateral development banks (MDBs)
was maintained through meetings and attendance at
international conferences and the annual meeting of the
Auditor Generals of the MDBs.

The ADB-wide study on internal controls, identifying
inherent risks and critical controls in the areas of country
assistance planning and programming and of operations
evaluation of projects, was completed. OGA actively
participated in the ongoing implementation of the financial
management and human resource management information
system, focusing on project risk analysis, overall design
reviews, and security and control aspects; acquisition of
the Treasury Risk Management System software, specifically
with regard to reviewing requirements and evaluating risk
management software in the areas of internal control and
security; and fallback tests for the Society for Worldwide
Interbank Financial Telecommunications (SWIFT, an
electronic funds transfer system) and ADB's mainframe
facilities, conducted in 2000 at the backup sites.

OGA provided integrated assistance to ADB's external
auditors in their continuing audit of ADB’s annual financial
statements throughout the year, and in the certification of
the interim financial statements for ADB's various bond
offerings. Also, OGA completed the bidding and selection
process for the external auditors for fiscal years 2001-2004
and assisted the Evaluation Committee.

me?

 

rty. in
andADB Resources and
Financial Managementhe Asian Development Bank's (ADB) activities to reduce poverty through social development were bolstered in 2000

with the establishment of the Japan Fund for Poverty Reduction. This new fund, which provides grants to social

development activities in line with the poverty reduction strategy, is discussed in this chapter. The year 2000 also

marked the successful seventh replenishment of the Asian Development Fund, the only multilateral source of concessional
assistance dedicated exclusively to the needs of Asia and the Pacific.

Ordinary capital resources

Ordinary capital resources (OCR) come from three distinct
sources: (i) private capital markets in the form of borrowings;
(ii) paid-in capital provided by government funds; and
(iii) accumulated retained income (reserves), which provides
a buffer for any operational risk.

Financial policies; The review of ADB's income and
reserves policy, undertaken by the Board of Directors in
1997, identified ADB’s decisive income indicators as the
interest coverage ratio (ICR) and the reserve:loan ratio (RLR).
The ICR is the ratio of net income to financial expenses
plus a factor of one. It measures the extent to which net
income can fall without jeopardizing ADB's ability to service
its financial expenses from current income. The review
concluded that the minimum policy level for the ICR should
be about 1.31. The RLR is the ratio of total reserves to the
sum of outstanding loans, equity investments, and the
present value of guarantees. The RLR measures the
adequacy of ADB’s earning base relative to its loan assets.
The policy approved in the 1997 review was to maintain an
RLR of about 25 percent.

On 1 January 2000, the recommendations approved by
the Board in the review of OCR loan charges undertaken
in 1999 became effective. The ADB lending spread was
raised from 40 basis points to 60 basis points, which was
applied to all outstanding pool-based loans. A front-end
fee of 1 percent was introduced for new loans, and a
commitment fee of a flat 0.75 percent was adopted for new
program loans.

A major review of OCR loan products was initiated
in 2000. The review aims to assist ADB in being more
responsive to the needs of its borrowers by assessing the
preferences of its clients and the current menu of ADB
loan products. The review is expected to be completed
in 2001.

Capitalization: As of 31 December 2000, ADB’s
authorized capital stock amounted to $45.5 billion (special
drawing rights [SDR]34.9 billion). The subscribed capital
stock stood at $45.3 billion (SDR34.7 billion).

During the year, Turkmenistan’s membership
subscription became effective.

Performance and allocation of net income

At the end of 2000, ADB's ICR stood at 1.4, and the RLR was
27.3 percent. During the year, in accordance with the income
and reserves policy approved in 1997, ADB reviewed its
income outlook and allocation of 1999 net income. Based
on the review, the Board of Governors approved that the
entire amount of $449.9 million of the 1999 net income be
allocated to reserves; and $80.0 million of the amount
currently held in ADB’s surplus account be reallocated to
ADB's Technical Assistance Special Fund (TASF).

Further, the Board of Directors approved that (i) in 2000,
ADB be allowed to convert an equivalent amount of
$300 million of nondollar operating currencies into United
States (US) dollars; and (ii) the current structure and level
of OCR loan charges be maintained.

Lending rates: ADB's three lending windows for loans
from OCR are the pool-based multicurrency loan window,
the pool-based single-currency loan window in US dollars,
and the market-based loan (MBL) window. The lending rates
for the pool-based multicurrency and pool-based singlecurrency loan windows are determined on the basis of the
previous semester's average cost of borrowings plus a
lending spread (of 60 basis points since 1 January 2000).
The MBL window provides single-currency loans in US dollars,
Japanese yen, or Swiss francs to private sector borrowers and
government-guaranteed financial intermediaries at current
terms. The interest rates on loans from the MBL window are
on either fixed or floating rate terms.

ADB's pool-based variable lending rates for the first
half of 2000 were 5.72 percent per annum for multicurrency

Lending Rates?
(% per annum)

1999 2000

1 January 5.84 5.72 multicurrency
6.38 6.46 US dollar

1 July 5.65 5.68 multicurrency
6.24 6.53 US dollar

a Lending rates are set on 1 January and 1 July every year and are valid for six-month
periods.134 ANNUAL REPORT 2000

Poeeceseseseereeesreeesreercecee eee eee eeeneee®

loans and 6.46 percent per annum for

 

Income and Expenses—Ordinary Capital Resources

 

 

US dollar loans. For the second half of — ($ million)

2000, the lending rate for multicurrency Fou

loans decreased to 5.68 percent per

annum, while the rate for US dollar loans 1997 ery 1999 2000

increased to 6.53 percent per annum. Total Income 1,561.7 1,449.7 1,832.5 2,027.8 —-2,300.9
The lending rates for MBLs are From Loans 1,170.0 1,127.9 1,440.9 1,674.6 1,861.3

determined on the basis of the six-month From Investments 3598 863117 382.9 344.0 399.9

London interbank offered rate plus a From Other Sources 31.9 10.1 8.7 9.2 39.7

lending spread. The lending spread for Less: Expenses

MBL loans to financial intermediaries in Interest and Other

the public sector is the same as that Financial 877.9 8532 1,206.5 1,447.2 ‘1,576.7

applicable for OCR pool-based loans. For Administrative® 108.8 95.7 121.7 105.9 92.6

private enterprises, the lending spread is Provision for Losses 29 32.9 37.4 24.8 5.9

determined on a case-to-case basis to

cover ADB's risk exposure to particular Total Expenses 989.6 981.8 1,365.6 1,577.9 1,675.2

Net Income? 572.1 467.9 466.9 449.9 625.7

borrowers and projects.

Income and expenses: Gross
income increased by 13.5 percent, from
$2 billion in 1999 to $2.3 billion in 2000,
because of an increase in income from
loans, investments, and other sources. Of the total gross
income, $1.9 billion was generated by the loan portfolio,
$400 million by the investment portfolio, and $40 million
from other sources (see table).

The average yield on the loan portfolio increased to
6.6 percent in 2000 from 6.4 percent in 1999, mainly because
ofan increase in lending spread. The yield on the investment
portfolio increased to 5 percent in 2000 from 3.9 percent
in 1999. This increase was attributed to favorable conditions prevailing in international fixed-income markets
during the year. The overall net return on average
operating assets achieved for the year was 1.7 percent,
compared with 1.3 percent in 1999.

Total operating expenses were $1.7 billion, up by
$97.3 million, or 6.2 percent from the previous year. The
rise in expenses was because of a $129.5 million increase
in financial expenses net of a $13.3 million decrease in
administrative expenses and an $18.9 million decrease in
the provision for losses. The provision for losses was lower
for 2000 ($5.9 million), compared with 1999 ($24.8 million)
primarily because of aberrant loss provisions established
during 1999 as a result of operational difficulties in some
investee companies. Total operating expenses accounted
for 72.8 percent of the gross income, compared with
77.8 percent in 1999.

Net income for 2000, before appropriation of guarantee
fees to the Special Reserve, amounted to $625.7 million, a
39.1 percent increase from the previous year. This compared
with a 3.6 percent decrease in net income in 1999.

Note: Figures may not add because of rounding.

a Net of administration charge allocated to the Asian Development Fund.
b Before appropriation of guarantee fees to the Special Reserve.

Loans

OCR loan approvals, disbursements, repayments, and
prepayments: In 2000, 41 OCR loans totaling $4.3 billion
were approved, compared with 34 OCR loans totaling
$3.9 billion approved in 1999. Of the 2000 amount,
78.7 percent of the loans went to India, People’s Republic
of China, Indonesia, and Philippines. Disbursements in 2000
totaled $2.9 billion, a decrease of 22.3 percent from
$3.7 billion in 1999. Principal repayments for the year were
$1.9 billion, of which $693.4 million represented prepayments on loans. In 2000, 14 loans were fully prepaid and
1 loan was partially prepaid. On 31 December 2000,

Net Income, 1996-2000
($ million)

0 140

2380

420 560 700

   

Pa G25.7cumulative loans outstanding after allowance for possible
losses amounted to $28.2 billion.

Status of loans: Two public sector OCR loans to
Myanmar and 12 private sector loans were in nonaccrual
status at the end of 2000. The total outstanding balances
of these loans amounted to $864,000 and $77.7 million,
respectively, comprising about 0.3 percent of the total OCR
loans outstanding.

Borrowings

In 2000, ADB raised funds totaling about $1.7 billion through
one global bond issue and three opportunistic/private
lacement transactions. The average life of the borrowings
undertaken in 2000, assuming the put option in one
orrowing is exercised, was about 5.6 years, compared with
about 4.5 years in 1999. After swaps, $1.6 billion of the
orrowings was in US dollar fixed-rate liabilities, with an
average all-in cost of 7.5 percent per annum and an average
ife of 5 years, compared with 5.6 percent per annum and
5.2 years in 1999. The remainder was a US dollar floatingrate liability with a life of 15 years. Of the total borrowings,
$1.6 billion was designated for use in the US dollar
ool-based lending window and about $93 million for the
market-based lending window.
In 2000, ADB followed a funding strategy of selective
ond issuance composed of cost-efficient opportunistic/
rivate placement transactions and benchmark public bond
issues. ADB used a currency swap transaction to convert
a borrowing into a targeted interest rate and currency.
In addition, ADB used short-term bridge financing as a
remedial measure to avoid temporary deficiencies in the
currencies required for loan disbursements or debt
service.

Also in 2000, as part of its efforts to maintain a
borrowing presence in the major capital markets, ADB
completed a global bond issue in the amount of $1 billion.

 

 

Borrowings, 2000
(amounts in millions)

ADB Resources and Financial Management 135

eee eee eee eee eee ee ee ee

Borrowings, 1991-2000
($ million)

1991 1992 1993 1994 1995 1996 1997 1998 1999 2000
30,000

25,000

20,000

Outstanding Debts

15,000 at End of Year

Annual Borrowings

10,000

5,000

 

The transaction achieved broad primary market distribution
and became a liquid and tradable benchmark in the US
global bond market. ADB's monitoring of funding opportunities in niche bond markets resulted in the completion
of three opportunistic transactions in an aggregate
amount of $693 million: a $300 million global put bond
issue; a $300 million Eurodollar bond issue; and a structured private placement of about $93 million equivalent.
Aside from generating cost-efficient funding, these three
transactions contributed to the expansion of ADB’s
investor base.

In addition, ADB raised $250 million in short-term funds
through issuance of Euro-commercial paper (ECP). Such ECP
was refinanced by a long-term borrowing in June.

Liquidity portfolio management

The liquidity portfolio functions as a buffer on the balance
sheet; it provides protection against adverse cash flow
situations. ADB's policy is to maintain the year-end level
of liquid assets at no less than 40 percent of undisbursed
loan balances. This helps ensure the uninterrupted

 

aA LTyace TI] Principal Amount —_- US$ Equivalent?
Global Public Offering 7.50% 5-Year Bonds due 2005 US$1,000 1,000.0
Public Offering 7.50% 15-Year Bonds due 2015° Us$300 300.0
Eurobond Market Private Placement 15-Year Notes due 2015‘ ¥10,000 92.6
Public Offering 7.00% 5-Year Notes due 2005 US$300 300.0
Total 1,692.6

a At ADB's exchange rates effective on the date the terms of the borrowings were determined by the President.

b With put option in year 5.

c Interest rate to be determined on the basis of US dollar/Japanese yen exchange rate 15 business days prior to interest payment date.136 ANNUAL REPORT 2000

availability of funds to meet loan disbursements, debt
servicing, and other expenses. In addition, the liquidity
portfolio contributes to ADB's earning base.

The Investment Authority, which is approved by the
Board of Directors, governs the investment of liquid assets.
Its primary objective is to ensure security and liquidity of
funds invested. Subject to meeting this objective, ADB seeks
to maximize the return on investments.

ADB's investments are made in the same currencies
as received. In accordance with its Charter, ADB does not
convert currencies for investment purposes. At present,
liquid investments are held in 18 currencies.

The new investment strategy, approved in 1999, is
designed to optimize the trade-off between expected risk
and return on the portfolio. As part of the implementation
of this strategy, the OCR liquidity portfolio was segregated
into a core, an operational cash, and a cash cushion portfolio
to maximize the efficiency of cash investments, increase
transparency by separately tracking the returns of these
portfolios, and enable tracking of the funding cost of the
cash cushion portfolio.

The restructuring of the core portfolio was largely
completed in 2000. This restructuring involved the
construction of portfolios that replicate the risk and return
characteristics of external benchmarks by extending
portfolio duration and using, in the US dollar portfolio, a
limited amount of AAA- and AA-rated corporate bonds.

In addition, amounts of $300 million each of the US
dollar core portfolio were allocated to investment in
mortgage-backed securities (AAA-rated), asset-backed
securities (AAA-rated), and corporate bonds (A-rated). These
allocations are managed by external asset management
firms that were identified after a thorough and transparent
selection process.

OCR investments decreased to $7.5 billion equivalent as of 31 December 2000 from $8.2 billion equivalent
as of 31 December 1999. The financial rate of return on
overall OCR investments was 6.1 percent, compared with
3.5 percent in 1999.

Risk management: The Risk Management Division of
ADB's Treasurer's Department is responsible for formulating
and implementing the guidelines, procedures, and systems
strategy for treasury risk management. The Division
identifies, quantifies, and monitors market and credit risk
exposure relating to treasury activities. In addition, it reviews
the effectiveness of risk measurement techniques and
introduces enhancements, where appropriate. The Division
undertakes performance measurement and monitoring
relative to benchmarks, and oversees the selection and
monitoring of external asset managers under both the

External Asset Management Program and the Staff
Retirement Plan.

Cash management operations: With the sharp
increase in lending and in program or fast-disbursing loans
following the Asian financial crisis in 1997, realized levels
of new lending and loan disbursements tended to differ
considerably from planned levels. In response, it became
clear that strengthening certain aspects of ADB's operations—that would factor in postcrisis volatility and resulting
uncertainty—was required. Accordingly, interdepartmental
meetings were held in 2000 to establish a rigorous and timebound system for making disbursement estimates available
on a monthly basis. In essence, the operational planning
processes within ADB were strengthened to ensure the
generation and dissemination of more accurate and timely
information, thereby improving the efficiency of ADB's cash
management operations.

Special Funds

ADB is authorized by its Charter to establish and
administer Special Funds. Currently it

handles the Asian Development Fund
(ADF), the Technical AssistanceSpecial Fund, the Japan Special Fund, including the Asian
Currency Crisis Support Facility, and the ADB Institute
Special Fund.

Asian Development Fund

The ADF is the concessional lending window of ADB that
provides loans to its DMCs with low per capita gross national
product and limited debt repayment capacity. The
governments of 26 donor members (both regional and
nonregional) have contributed to the ADF, which is the only
multilateral source of concessional assistance dedicated
exclusively to the needs of Asia and the Pacific. The ADF
supports activities that promote poverty reduction and
improvement in the quality of life of ADB’s poorer DMCs.
The ADF is therefore an important instrument of multilateral
cooperation for achieving poverty reduction through
equitable and sustainable development in the poorest
countries of Asia and the Pacific.

ADF VIII: Negotiations on the seventh ADF replenishment (ADF VIII), which is intended to provide resources
for ADB's concessional lending operations for the period
2001-2004, were concluded in September 2000. The
replenishment agreed upon was $5.65 billion (at the
average daily exchange rates for the period 1 October
1999-31 March 2000). Of this amount, the 25 donors to
the replenishment will contribute a total of $2.91 billion,
while the balance of $2.74 billion will be met from commitment authority generated by repayments of earlier
loans. The largest contribution ($1.1 billion) was offered
by Japan. The US will contribute $412.0 million, while
the European donors will make a total contribution of
$859.8 million. Contributions from Asia and the Pacific
will account for almost half the total replenishment. Firsttime contributors are Portugal (as an expected new
member of ADB) and Singapore.

During the negotiations, donors agreed on several
operational priorities and approaches for strengthening the
multilateral foundation of ADF and ADB. These included
plans for a more robust performance-based allocation
system for ADF resources and greater support for enhancing
good governance in the region, promoting gender equality,
improving the environment, and enhancing cooperation
among developing member countries (DMCs).

Resolution No. 276, which sets out the terms and
conditions of the replenishment, was adopted by the Board
of Governors on 13 December 2000. The Resolution
envisages that contributions will be paid to ADB and become

 

ADB Resources and Financial Management 137

eee eee eee eee eee ee ee ee

available for operational commitments in four equal
amounts over the four years covered by the replenishment.

ADF VII: The sixth replenishment of the Asian
Development Fund (ADF VII) was authorized by Resolution
No. 247 of the Board of Governors on 22 March 1997 to
finance ADB's concessional lending operations over the four
years 1997-2000. In March 2000, the balance of 77 percent
of the US’ second tranche became available to ADB for
operational commitments, thereby releasing the remaining
77 percent of the third tranches of Austria, France, Germany,
Malaysia, and Turkey. Italy and New Zealand paid their third
installments in February 2000. In addition, 18 donors paid
their fourth installments in full.' Australia did not pay its
fourth installment, while the US did not pay its third and
fourth installments. As a result, four donors—Austria,
France, Germany, and Malaysia—exercised their pro rata
rights and did not release their fourth installments for
operational commitments.

ADF loan approvals, disbursements, and repayments: In 2000, 49 ADF loans totaling $1.6 billion were
approved, compared with 32 ADF loans totaling $1.1 billion approved in 1999. Of the 2000 amount, about 41 percent went to Pakistan, Bangladesh, and Sri Lanka.
Disbursements in 2000 totaled $1,135.0 million, an increase
of 1.9 percent from $1,113.8 million in 1999. At the end of
the year, cumulative disbursements from ADF resources
were $16.5 billion. Loan repayments during the year
amounted to $208.4 million, and cumulative repayments
were $1.4 billion. As of 31 December 2000, ADF loans
outstanding amounted to $15.5 billion, net of the allowance
for possible losses of $6.7 million.

ADF Commitment Authority
($ million) (year-end)

1999? 2000?

 

ADF VII Contributions 1,601.6 1,978.2
ADF VI Contributions? 430.1 417.0
Expanded Advance Commitment

Authority 1,500.0 2,231.4
Total ADF Resources 3,531.7 4,626.6
Less:

Loans Committed 3,367.9 4,471.0

Provision for Disbursement Risk 132.1 155.7
Total 31.8 0.0

a Total does not add because of rounding.
b Amounts of ADF VI contributions released for operational commitments during
the ADF VII period.

1 Another donor, Italy, paid its fourth installment in full in February 2001138 ANNUAL REPORT 2000

Poeeceseseseereeesreeesreercecee eee eee eeeneee®

Status of loans: Four public sector ADF loans to
Afghanistan, 28 public sector loans to Myanmar, and one
private sector loan were in nonaccrual status as of the end
of 2000. Total outstanding ADF loans to Afghanistan
amounted to $30.5 million, to Myanmar $460.7 million, and
to the private sector $6.0 million, together comprising about
3.2 percent of the total ADF loans outstanding.

Portfolio position: The ADF investment portfolio at
the end of 2000 amounted to $2.3 billion, compared with
$2.1 billion at the end of 1999. About 47 percent of the
portfolio was invested in bank deposits, and 53 percent in
floating and fixed income securities. The financial rate of
return on ADF investments in 2000 was 5.2 percent,
compared with 3.8 percent in 1999.

The portfolio was denominated in 14 currencies, with
yen and US dollars accounting for 35 percent of the portfolio.

ADF revenue and expenses: In 2000, the excess of
ADF revenue over expenses (net income) was $163.6 million, bringing the accumulated surplus to $1.5 billion at the
end of the year.

Gross revenue, consisting mainly of revenue from ADF
investments and service fees on ADF loans, amounted to
$265.9 million. Expenses consist mainly of administration
charges payable to OCR of $102.3 million net of provision
for losses written back of $21,000.

 

Technical Assistance Special Fund

Review of activities: In May 2000, the Board of Governors
approved the reallocation of $80.0 million from OCR's
surplus account to the Technical Assistance Special Fund
(TASF). During the year, India made a direct voluntary
contribution (its 16'") to the TASF, amounting to $103,000
equivalent. This was made on a wholly untied basis.

At the end of 2000, total TASF resources amounted to
$899.5 million. Of this, $784.0 million had been committed,
leaving an uncommitted balance of $115.5 million. For
details, see Table 32 in the Statistical Annex.

Operations and resource position: Technical
assistance committed (approved and effective) increased
from $63.1 million in 1999 to $80.5 million in 2000 with
199 technical assistance projects effective during the year.
During 2000, $13.4 million ($7.0 million in 1999), representing completed and canceled technical assistance
projects, was written back as a reduction in technical
assistance for the period, and the corresponding undisbursed
commitment was eliminated. Revenue from investments
increased from $7.1 million in 1999 to $9.7 million in 2000,
mainly because of better returns from the Canadian and
Euro portfolios. As a result of increased technical assistance

Technical Assistance Special Fund
Cumulative Resources
($ million)

1999 2000

Regularized Replenishment

Contributions 238.0 238.0
Allocations from OCR Net Income 421.0 501.0
Direct Voluntary Contributions 87.2 87.3
Income from Investment and

Other Sources 66.5 76.7
Transfers from TASF to ADF (3.5) (3.5)
Total 809.2 899.5

() Negative.

and unfavorable exchange adjustments, offsetting the fund
allocation from OCR and revenue for the period, the
uncommitted balance available for future commitments
decreased from $116.3 million in 1999 to $115.5 million in
2000. In terms of technical assistance approved during the
year, the TASF contributed 45.2 percent of funding for total
technical assistance.

At the end of 2000, TASF investments stood at
$238.8 million, up by 10.5 percent from 1999. Other assets—
comprising due from banks, advances to consultants, and
others—totaled $12.9 million. Accounts payable to OCR and
others amounted to $505,000.

Japan Special Fund

Review of activities: The technical assistance grants
funded by the Japan Special Fund (JSF) continued to
support ADB operations aimed at reducing poverty. In
March 2000, the Government of Japan contributed a
further 4.1 billion yen ($37.6 million equivalent) as a

Japan Special Fund
Technical Assistance by Sector, 2000

Raila %
Social Infrastructure 19.3 25.0
Agriculture and Natural Resources 14.7 19.1
Others 14.1 18.3
Transport and Communications 11.7 15.2:
Finance 8.9 11.5
Energy 5.1 6.6
Multisector 2.9 3.8
Industry and Nonfuel Minerals 0.4 0.5
Total 771 100.0Beneficiaries Recognize JSF Assistance
ADB's efforts to reduce poverty in Asia and the Pacific were
reinforced again in 2000 as the Japan Special Fund (JSF)
continued to help fund social infrastructure improvements
in Cambodia, People’s Republic of China, Indonesia,
Mongolia, Philippines, Sri Lanka, and Uzbekistan. Positive
recognition of the JSF technical assistance—which also
funded agriculture and natural resources, transport and
communications, environment, and energy activities—was
forthcoming from beneficiaries and governments alike.

Residents from low- and middle-income households
in Mongolia expressed strong support for a JSF-funded
technical assistance to the urban development sector that
is expected to result in the first Housing Finance Project in
Mongolia and the establishment of a viable Housing Finance
System in the country.

In Indonesia, the government agency, BAPEDAL,
lauded the successful implementation of the Capacity
Building for Decentralization of Environmental Impact

regular contribution to the JSF. As of 31 December 2000,
Japan’s cumulative contribution to the JSF, since its
inception in 1988, amounted to 90.6 billion yen (about
$782.6 million equivalent), comprising regular contributions of 72.6 billion yen and supplementary contributions
of 18.0 billion yen. In 2000, ADB approved 113 technical
assistance grants for JSF funding in an aggregate amount
of $77.1 million. The uncommitted balance as of
31 December 2000 was $51.1 million. For details, see Table
33 in the Statistical Annex.

Sectoral activities: In 2000, the JSF financed
38 percent of the total amount of technical assistance
approved by ADB, including 85 percent of the total amount
of project preparatory technical assistance approved
during the year. The breakdown of JSF approvals by sector
is shown in the table.

Asian Currency Crisis Support Facility

Review of activities: The Asian Currency Crisis Support
Facility (ACCSF) was established in March 1999 for a
three-year period as an independent component of the JSF.
Administered by ADB, the ACCSF is funded entirely by the
Government of Japan as part of its financial assistance
under the New Miyazawa Initiative to countries in the
region most affected by the Asian financial crisis:
Indonesia, Republic of Korea, Malaysia, Philippines, and
Thailand. The ACCSF modalities comprise interest payment assistance (IPA), technical assistance grants, and

ADB Resources and Financial Management 139

eee eee eee eee eee ee ee ee

Assessment (EIA) process, which was instrumental in
strengthening the role of EIA in the project permit system.
The technical assistance helped integrate and simplify the
EIA process by introducing and prioritizing strategic
environmental assessment, establishing mechanisms to
promote transparency and stakeholder participation in the
EIA process, and reaching an understanding between central
and local governments in further developing environment
institutions at the district and city levels.

In the People’s Republic of China, residents of Anhui
Province expressed willingness to participate in the implementation of the JSF-financed Acid Rain Control and Environmental
Improvement Project. The technical assistance will have
three main components: (i) an environmental policy package;
(ii) a set of subprojects to reduce sulfur dioxide, control
acid rain, and improve the environment; and (iii) an
institutional strengthening component, which is expected
to have a positive effect on raising public awareness.

guarantees. ACCSF assistance must be approved within
the three-year period after the ACCSF was established
(i.e., not beyond 22 March 2002).

In March 2000, the Government of Japan contributed
15.0 billion yen ($136.6 million equivalent) for its third
contribution to the ACCSF. At the end of 2000, Japan’s
cumulative contributions for the IPA and technical
assistance component of the ACCSF amounted to 27.5 billion yen ($241.0 million equivalent). In 2000, ADB
approved seven technical assistance grants for ACCSF
funding amounting to $7.6 million. The uncommitted
balance of ACCSF funds for IPA and technical assistance
as of 31 December 2000 was $125.9 million. For details, see
Table 34 in the Statistical Annex.

ACCSF financing is targeted at activities that support
policy dialogue, human resource development, institutional
strengthening, and other relevant efforts focusing on bank
restructuring and corporate debt restructuring; creating or
developing sound financial monitoring, supervision, and
regulation; enhancing public sector and corporate governance;
developing social safety nets; and protecting the environment.

The Government of Japan has also deposited a
promissory note for 360.0 billion yen ($3.2 billion equivalent)
in the ACCSF custodian account, which may be encashed
to meet a call on any guarantees issued under the ACCSF.
Although opportunities for using ACCSF guarantees in
relation to ADB operations in the DMCs eligible for ACCSF
financing were identified in 2000, no ACCSF guarantee
operations were concluded during the year.140 ANNUAL REPORT 2000

Poeeceseseseereeesreeesreercecee eee eee eeeneee®

Sectoral activities: In 2000, the ACCSF financed
4 percent of the total amount of technical assistance
approved by ADB. The breakdown of the ACCSF technical
assistance approvals by sector is shown in the table.

ADB Institute Special Fund

The costs for operating ADB Institute are met from the ADB
Institute Special Fund, which is administered by ADB in
accordance with the Statute of ADB Institute. Japan made
its fourth contribution in the amount of 909.0 million yen
(equivalent to $8.3 million) in March 2000.

As of 31 December 2000, cumulative commitments
amounted to 5.3 billion yen (equivalent to about $43.0 million) excluding translation adjustments. Of the total contributions received, $37.4 million had been used as of
31 December 2000, mainly for research and capacitybuilding activities, including organizing symposia and
training, preparing research reports and publications, and
associated administrative expenses.

As of 31 December 2000, the balance of net current
assets available for future projects and programs of ADB
Institute was about $5.9 million.

Other funds managed by ADB

Other funds include the Japan Fund for Poverty Reduction,
Japan Scholarship Program, and various channel financing
arrangements.

Asian Currency Crisis Support Facility
Technical Assistance by Sector, 2000

 

$ Million %
Industry and Nonfuel Minerals 35 46.1
Social Infrastructure 2.8 36.8
Agriculture and Natural Resources 1.1 14.5
Others 0.2 2.6
Total 7.6 100.0

Japan Fund for Poverty Reduction

The Japan Fund for Poverty Reduction (JFPR) was established
in May 2000 to support ADB-financed projects with
innovative poverty reduction and related social development
activities on a grant basis in line with the ADB's poverty
reduction strategy. The JFPR has four objectives: (i) support
well-targeted poverty reduction and social development
activities that have a direct impact on the poor and on
socially or economically excluded or vulnerable groups;
(ii) stimulate the self-help capacities of the poor; (iii) enhance
widespread stakeholder participation at the community
level; and (iv) provide a systematic impact on DMCs’
operations and approaches toward sustainable poverty
reduction. The JFPR will finance activities that are aimed
directly at poverty reduction, and provide innovative and
demonstrative impacts on poverty reduction.

The Government of Japan contributed 10 billion yen
($92.6 million) to the JFPR in 2000. During the year, the JFPR
financed five innovative poverty reduction and related social
development activities for a total of $7.5 million: (i) Assisting

Assisting Girl Street Children in Indonesia

Child victims of sexual abuse and prostitution in Yogyakarta
are receiving counseling, and medical and health services
because of a $1 million project financed by the Japan Fund
for Poverty Reduction.

The pilot scheme, which is assisting nearly
500 young girls, will be replicated in other cities in
Indonesia. Counseling programs for girl street children
who are either at risk of, or who have experienced, sexual
abuse are being established, and different approaches
to prevention and rehabilitation are being evaluated. The
Project is also developing culturally acceptable, costeffective, and sustainable programs to help the
Government, nongovernment organizations (NGOs), and
social workers address the needs of the nearly 34,000 girl

street children in Indonesia. Low-cost accommodation
for pregnant girls and young mothers will be provided.
Partnerships among Government, NGOs, and the private
sector will generate financial support to ensure project
sustainability.

The Project, which was launched in November 2000,
met with approval from stakeholders, especially NGOs, for
its innovative approach of directly helping the socially
vulnerable.

The project complements other ADB initiatives in
Indonesia: the Social Protection Sector Development
Program and Health and Nutrition Sector Development
Program, both of which aim to provide basic education,
counseling, and training for street children.Japan Fund for Poverty Reduction
Grant Assistance by Sector, 2000

 

RT ite A
Social Infrastructure 37 49.6
Agriculture and Natural Resources 2.8 37.1
Others 1.0 13.3
Total LS: 100.0

Girl Street Children at Risk of Sexual Exploitation in
Indonesia ($1.0 million), (ii) Supporting the Sustainable
Livelihood for the Poor in Southern Philippines ($2.8 million), (iii) On-site Integrated Urban Upgrading for Vulnerable Slum Communities of Payatas in the Philippines
($1.0 million), (iv) Low-Cost Sanitation, Community
Awareness, and Health Education Program in Papua New
Guinea ($1.7 million), and (v) Off-site and Off-city Relocation of Vulnerable Slum Communities of Muntinlupa City
in the Philippines ($1.0 million). The nature of the JFPR
toward direct intervention to poverty and enhanced community participation has been well received by stakeholders and appreciated by the beneficiaries. For details, see
Table 35 in the Statistical Annex.

Japan Scholarship Program

The Japan Scholarship Program (JSP) was established in 1988
to provide an opportunity for well-qualified citizens of DMCs
to undertake postgraduate studies in economics, management, science and technology, and other developmentrelated fields at selected educational institutions in Asia and
the Pacific. The Program is funded by the Government of
Japan and administered by ADB. Currently, 18 institutions
in 10 countries participate in the JSP.

Between 1988 and 2000, the Government of Japan
contributed more than $40 million to the JSP. A total of
1,164 scholarships have been awarded to recipients from
33 member countries. Of the total, 871 recipients have
already completed their courses. Women have received
335 scholarships. The number of new scholarships awarded
annually has grown from 49 in 1988 to 135 in 2000.

Channel financing arrangements

Official grant cofinancing plays a vital role in ADB
operations, particularly in view of the continuing constraints
on TASF and ADF resources. These grant funds support
ADB's technical assistance program and finance soft
components of its loan projects.

ADB Resources and Financial Management 141

eee eee eee eee eee ee ee ee

JSP Scholars Value Assistance

During a gathering of Japan Scholarship Program (JSP)
scholars, recipients expressed appreciation for the JSP.
The financial assistance, which covers tuition, books,
subsistence allowance, housing allowance, medical
insurance, travel, and research subsidies, not only
provided the scholars with the opportunity for a higher
education, but also allowed interaction among the
various DMC nationalities. Upon completing their studies,
the scholars are expected to contribute to the economic
and social development of their home countries—a
requirement which, the scholars say, they are well
qualified and willing to meet.

A majority of such grants are provided by bilateral
donors under channel financing arrangements (CFAs). ADB
acts as administrator of the funds and applies its own
guidelines and procedures in recruiting consultants,
procurement, disbursement, and project supervision.

Under a CFA, the donor enters into a comprehensive
agreement with ADB whereby the donor provides an
untied grant fund to be administered by ADB (but the fund
does not become part of ADB's own resources); the donor
indicates its preferred sectors and recipient countries in
the use of the fund; ADB regularly provides the donor
with a list and description of proposed technical
assistance projects that satisfy the donor's preferences;
and the donor and ADB agree on the specific activities
to be financed under the fund. Funds provided under a
CFA are transferred to an interest-bearing account and
may also be invested by ADB pending disbursement.
Donors are provided with regular financial statements
and progress reports on the use of the fund. ADB is
responsible for project preparation, processing, and
administration. CFAs may be replenished with additional
funds at the donor's discretion.

The primary advantage of CFAs is that funding for
a number of individual technical assistance projects may
be provided under a single agreement. Accordingly, they
minimize the need for detailed negotiations on a caseby-case basis and foster administrative efficiency. The
first CFA was negotiated in 1980. Since then, ADB has
entered into CFAs with 12 bilateral donors: Australia,
Belgium, Denmark, Finland, France, Italy, Netherlands,
New Zealand, Norway, Spain, Sweden, and Switzerland.
To date, 140 technical assistance grants have been
financed under CFAs in a total aggregate amount of about
$66 million.Financial Statements
and Reports of Independent Auditors

I. Ordinary Capital Resources (OCR)

Report of Independent Auditors

OCR-1
OCR-2

OCR-3
OCR-4
OCR-5
OCR-6
OCR-7

OCR-8

Balance Sheet, 31 December 2000 and 1999
Statement of Income and Expenses for the Years Ended
31 December 2000 and 1999
Statement of Cash Flows for the Years Ended
31 December 2000 and 1999
Statement of Changes in Capital and Reserves for the Years Ended
31 December 2000 and 1999
Summary Statement of Loans, 31 December 2000 and 1999
Summary Statement of Borrowings, 31 December 2000 and 1999
Statement of Subscriptions to Capital Stock and Voting Power,
31 December 2000
Notes to Financial Statements, 31 December 2000 and 1999

Il. Special Funds Resources

Asian Development Fund (ADF)
Report of Independent Auditors

ADF-1
ADF-2

ADF-3
ADF-4
ADF-5

ADF-6
ADF-7

Balance Sheet, 31 December 2000 and 1999

Statement of Revenue and Expenses for the Years Ended
31 December 2000 and 1999

Statement of Cash Flows for the Years Ended
31 December 2000 and 1999

Statement of Changes in Unexpended Balances and Capital for the Years Ended
31 December 2000 and 1999

Summary Statement of Loans, 31 December 2000 and 1999

Statement of Resources, 31 December 2000

Notes to Financial Statements, 31 December 2000 and 1999

Technical Assistance Special Fund (TASF)
Report of Independent Auditors

TASF-1
TASF-2

TASE-3

TASF-4
TASF-5

TASF-6

Japan Special Fund USF)
Report of Independent Auditors

JSF-1
JSF-2

JSF-3

JSF-4

Statement of Financial Position, 31 December 2000 and 1999
Statement of Activities and Changes in Net Assets for the Years Ended
31 December 2000 and 1999

Statement of Cash Flows for the Years Ended

31 December 2000 and 1999

Statement of Resources, 31 December 2000

Summary Statement of Technical Assistance Approved and Effective
for the Year Ended 31 December 2000

Notes to Financial Statements, 31 December 2000 and 1999

Statement of Financial Position, 31 December 2000 and 1999
Statement of Activities and Changes in Net Assets for the Years Ended
31 December 2000 and 1999

Statement of Cash Flows for the Years Ended

31 December 2000 and 1999

Notes to Financial Statements, 31 December 2000 and 1999

 

Asian Development Bank Institute Special Fund (ADBISF)

Report of Independent Auditors

ADBISF-1 Statement of Financial Position, 31 December 2000 and 1999
ADBISF-2 Statement of Activities and Changes in Net Assets for the Years Ended

31 December 2000 and 1999

 

ADBISF-3 Statement of Cash Flows for the Years Ended

31 December 2000 and 1999

 

ADBISF-4 Notes to Financial Statements, 31 December 2000 and 1999

43
44

46
47
48
50
152

54

fal
72

73
74
75
76

78
i

84

86

87
88

189
90
O20,
93
of

95
96

 

200
201

202

203
204Financial Statements 143

eee recesses eeeeeeceecce eee ese seer eeeeeeeeeE®

REPORT OF INDEPENDENT AUDITORS
Asian Development Bank

In our opinion, the accompanying balance sheets and the related statements of
income and expenses, of cash flows, and of changes in capital and reserves present
fairly, in all material respects, in terms of United States dollars, the financial
position of the Asian Development Bank-Ordinary Capital Resources at 31 December 2000 and 1999, and the results of its operations, its cash flows, and the changes
in its capital and reserves for the years then ended, in conformity with generally
accepted accounting principles in the United States. These financial statements are
the responsibility of the management of the Asian Development Bank; our responsibility is to express an opinion on these financial statements based on our audits.
We conducted our audits of these statements in accordance with generally accepted
auditing standards in the United States which require that we plan and perform the
audit to obtain reasonable assurance about whether the financial statements are
free of material misstatement. An audit includes examining, on a test basis, evidence supporting the amounts and disclosures in the financial statements. An audit
also includes assessing the accounting principles used and significant estimates
made by management, as well as evaluating the overall financial statement presentation. We believe that our audits provide a reasonable basis for the opinion
expressed above.

Our audits were conducted for the purpose of forming an opinion on the basic
financial statements taken as a whole. The accompanying summary statements of
loans and of borrowings as at 31 December 2000 and 1999, and of statement of
subscriptions to capital stock and voting power as at 31 December 2000 are
presented for purposes of additional analyses and are not required parts of the basic
financial statements. Such information has been subjected to the auditing procedures applied in the audits of the basic financial statements and in our opinion, is
fairly stated in all material respects in relation to the basic financial statements
taken as a whole.

Zuds wary hoaarCoopio LF

Boston, Massachusetts
7 March 2001144 ANNUAL REPORT 2000

Oe

ASIAN DEVELOPMENT BANK-ORDINARY CAPITAL RESOURCES

BALANCE SHEET
31 December 2000 and 1999
Expressed in Thousands of United States Dollars (Note B)

 

 

 

ASSETS
2000 1999
DUE FROM BANKS (Notes B and C) $ 62,546 $ 72,972
INVESTMENTS (Notes B, C, D, and J)
Government and government-guaranteed obligations $ 3,623,338 $ 2,295,714
Time deposits 2,065,190 3,643,433
Other securities 1,844,480 7,533,008 2,259,544 8,198,691
LOANS OUTSTANDING (OCR-5) (Notes A, B, and E)
Members and guaranteed by members 27,825,302 27,936,529
Private sector 405,424 407,612
28,230,726 28,344,141
Less—allowance for possible losses 75,610 28,155,116 72,991 28,271,150
EQUITY INVESTMENTS (Notes A, B, and F) 265,272 272,616
Less—allowance for possible losses 61,775 203,497 61,522 211,094
ACCRUED INCOME
On investments 87,313 86,564
On loans 408,735 496,048 372,502 459,066
RECEIVABLE FROM MEMBERS (Note 1)
Nonnegotiable, noninterest-bearing demand
obligations (Note C) 384,045 381,576
Amounts required to maintain value of currency
holdings 8,725 5,495
Subscription installments 1,169 393,939 1,943 389,014
OTHER ASSETS
Receivable from currency swaps (Note H) 5,942,697 6,666,875
Notional amounts required to maintain value of
currency holdings (Note !) 677,808 708,431
Property, furniture, and equipment (Notes B and G) 156,256 155,395
Investment related receivables 86,026 4,431
Unamortized issuance costs of borrowings 46,613 56,135
Miscellaneous (Note L) 103,003 7,012,403 101,403 7,692,670
TOTAL $43,856,557 $45,294,657

See notes to financial statements (OCR-8).Financial Statements

eee recesses eeeeeeceecce eee ese seer eeeeeeeeeE®

145

 

 

OCR-1
LIABILITIES, CAPITAL, AND RESERVES
2000 1999
BORROWINGS (OCR-6) (Note H) $25,367,175 $26,285,451
ACCRUED INTEREST ON BORROWINGS 378,140 405,960
ACCOUNTS PAYABLE AND OTHER LIABILITIES
Payable for currency swaps (Note H) $ 6,633,736 $ 7,484,515
Notional amounts required to maintain value
of currency holdings (Note |) 279,051 340,351
Investment related payables 222,646 79,405
Advance payments on subscriptions (Note 1!) 102 8,802
Miscellaneous (Note G) 142,072 7,277,607 126,937 8,040,010
CAPITAL AND RESERVES (OCR-4)
Capital stock (OCR-7) (Notes B and 1)
Authorized (SDR34,909,940,000)
Subscribed
(SDR34,746,270,000 - 2000,
SDR34,656,690,000 - 1999) 45,271,263 47,596,805
Less—"callable” shares subscribed 42,087,172 44,249,150
“Paid-in” shares subscribed 3,184,091 3,347,655
Less—subscription installments not due 72,232 160,426
Subscription installments matured 3,111,859 3,187,229
Less—capital transferred to the
Asian Development Fund 62,031 65,386
3,049,828 3,121,843
Ordinary reserve (Note J) 7,166,484 6,688,873
Special reserve (Note J) 181,608 181,608
Surplus (Note J) 116,645 196,645
Net income after allocations and appropriations
(OCR-2) (Note J) 625,716 449,873
Accumulated other comprehensive
income (OCR-4) (Note J) (306,646) 10,833,635 (75,606) 10,563,236
TOTAL $43,856,557 $45,294,657146 ANNUAL REPORT 2000

Oe

OCR-2

ASIAN DEVELOPMENT BANK-ORDINARY CAPITAL RESOURCES
STATEMENT OF INCOME AND EXPENSES

For the Years Ended 31 December 2000 and 1999
Expressed in Thousands of United States Dollars (Note B)

 

INCOME (Note K)
From loans (Notes B and E)
Interest
Commitment charge
Others

From investments (Notes B and D)
Interest
Net loss on sales
From other sources—net (Notes E and P)
TOTAL INCOME
EXPENSES (Note K)
Interest and other financial expenses (Note H)
Administrative expenses (Note M)
Provision for possible losses (Notes B and E)
TOTAL EXPENSES
NET INCOME

APPROPRIATION OF GUARANTEE FEES
TO SPECIAL RESERVE (Note J)

NET INCOME AFTER APPROPRIATION
TO SPECIAL RESERVE

See notes to financial statements (OCR-8).

2000

1999

 

$1,807,955
46,860
6,519 $1,861,334

403,490
(3,628) 399,862

39,734

1,576,745
92,559
5,910

$2,300,930

1,675,214

625,716

$ 625,716

$1,625,654
47,789
1,192 $1,674,635

386,426
(42,475) 343,951

9,233

1,447,218
105,894
24,834

$2,027,819

1,577,946

449,873

$ 449,873Financial Statements 147

eee recesses eeeeeeceecce eee ese seer eeeeeeeeeE®

 

OCR-3
ASIAN DEVELOPMENT BANK-ORDINARY CAPITAL RESOURCES
STATEMENT OF CASH FLOWS
For the Years Ended 31 December 2000 and 1999
Expressed in Thousands of United States Dollars (Note B)
2000 1999
CASH FLOWS FROM OPERATING ACTIVITIES
Interest and other charges on loans received $ 1,570,741 $ 1,425,823
Interest on investments received 400,347 407,745
Interest and other financial expenses paid (1,485,833) (1,257,541)
Administrative expenses paid (56,385) (121,937)
Others—net 21,741 12,400
Net Cash Provided by Operating Activities 450,611 466,490
CASH FLOWS FROM INVESTING ACTIVITIES
Net cash withdrawn from (invested in) time deposits,
other obligations of banks, corporate bonds and others 1,958,287 (2,246,019)
Sales of investment securities 5,493,655 8,300,935
Maturities of investment securities 39,502,521 87,602,260
Purchases of investment securities (46,389,783) (93,773,186)
Principal collected on loans 1,856,437 1,151,803
Loans disbursed (2,640,125) (3,492,014)
Property, furniture, and equipment acquired (10,570) (3,754)
Net purchases of equity investments 511 (20,013)
Net Cash Used in Investing Activities (229,067) (2,479,988)
CASH FLOWS FROM FINANCING ACTIVITIES
Net proceeds of new borrowings 1,944,312 7,508,639
Bonds purchased for redemption and borrowings redeemed (1,969,637) (5,523,641)
Matured capital subscriptions collected’ 20,301 35,207
Borrowing issuance expenses paid (6,491) (10,708)
Demand obligations of members encashed 23,967 25,413
Net currency swaps (172,193) 61,446
Resources transferred to TASF (80,000) (80,000)
Net Cash (Used in) Provided by Financing Activities (239,741) 2,016,356
Effect of Exchange Rate Changes on Due from Banks 7271 7,497
Net (Decrease) Increase in Due from Banks (10,426) 10,355
Due from Banks at Beginning of Year 72,972 62,617
Due from Banks at End of Year $ 62,546 $ 72,972

RECONCILIATION OF NET INCOME TO NET CASH PROVIDED
BY OPERATING ACTIVITIES:
Net Income (OCR-2) $ 625,716 $ 449,873
Adjustments to reconcile net income to
net cash provided by operating activities:

Change in accrued interest and other expenses 1,752 32,432

Change in accrued income, including interest and
commitment charges added to loans (299,873) (228,254)
Depreciation and amortization 96,218 153,303
Net loss from sales of investments 3,628 42,475
Change in administration charge receivable 33,653 (39,643)
Provision for possible losses charged 5,910 24,834
Others—net (16,393) 31,470
Net Cash Provided by Operating Activities $ 450,611 $ 466,490

1 In addition, nonnegotiable, noninterest-bearing demand promissory notes amounting to $47,508 ($56,697 — 1999) were received from members.

See notes to financial statements (OCR-8).148

ANNUAL REPORT 2000

OO

ASIAN DEVELOPMENT BANK-ORDINARY CAPITAL RESOURCES
STATEMENT OF CHANGES IN CAPITAL AND RESERVES
For the Years Ended 31 December 2000 and 1999
Expressed in Thousands of United States Dollars (Notes B and 1)

 

Accumulated

 

Net Income After Other
Capital Ordinary Special Allocation and Comprehensive
Stock Reserve Reserve Surplus Appropriations Income Total
Balance—

1 January 1999 $3,102,543 $6,211,102 $181,608 $276,645 $ 464,257 $(172,908) $10,063,247
Comprehensive income

for the year 1999 (Note J) 449,873 97,302 547,175
Change in SDR value of

paid-in shares subscribed (66,367) (66,367)
Additional paid-in shares

subscribed during the year 15,417 15,417
Change in subscription

installments not due 68,600 68,600
Change in SDR value of

capital transferred to

Asian Development Fund 1,650 1,650
Allocation of 1998 net income

to ordinary reserve (Note J) 464,257 (464,257) Allocation of surplus to

Technical Assistance

Special Fund (Note J) (80,000) (80,000)
Credit to ordinary reserve

for change in SDR value of

capital stock (Note J) 13,514 13,514

Balance—

31 December 1999 $3,121,843 $6,688,873 $181,608 $196,645 $ 449,873 $ (75,606) $10,563,236

(Forward)Financial Statements

149

eee recesses eeeeeeceecce eee ese seer eeeeeeeeeE®

 

OCR-4
Accumulated
Net Income After Other
Capital Ordinary Special Allocation and Comprehensive
Stock Reserve Reserve Surplus Appropriations Income Total
Balance—
31 December 1999 $3,121,843 $6,688,873 $181,608 $196,645 $ 449,873 $ (75,606) $10,563,236
(Forward)
Comprehensive income
for the year 2000 (Note J) 625,716 (231,040) 394,676
Change in SDR value of
paid-in shares subscribed (157,007) (157,007)
Additional paid-in shares
subscribed during the year 7,600 7,600
Change in subscription
installments not due 74,037 74,037
Change in SDR value of
capital transferred to
Asian Development Fund 3,355 3,355
Allocation of 1999 net income
to ordinary reserve (Note J) 449,873 (449,873) Allocation of surplus to
Technical Assistance
Special Fund (Note J) (80,000) (80,000)
Credit to ordinary reserve
for change in SDR value of
capital stock (Note J) 27,738 27,738
Balance—
31 December 2000 $3,049,828 $7,166,484 $181,608 $116,645 $ 625,716 $(306,646) $10,833,635

Accumulated Other Comprehensive Income (Note J)
For the Years Ended 31 December 2000 and 1999
Expressed in Thousands of United States Dollars (Note B)

Accumulated
Translation Adjustments

Unrealized Investment
Holding Gains (Losses)

Accumulated Other
Comprehensive Income

 

Balance, 1 January
Other comprehensive income for the year

Balance, 31 December

See notes to financial statements (OCR-8).

 

 

 

 

2000 1999 2000 1999 2000 1999
$ (78,329) $(200,036) $ 2,723 $ 27,128 $ (75,606)  $(172,908)
(297,673) 121,707 66,633 (24,405) (231,040) 97,302
$(376,002) $ (78,329) $69,356 $ 2,723 $(306,646) $ (75,606)150 ANNUAL REPORT 2000

Oe OO

ASIAN DEVELOPMENT BANK-ORDINARY CAPITAL RESOURCES
SUMMARY STATEMENT OF LOANS

31 December 2000 and 1999

Expressed in Thousands of United States Dollars (Note B)

 

 

 

 

 

Undisbursed Loans
Loans Balance of Not Yet Total Percent of
Borrower/Guarantor Outstanding! Effective Loans? Effective Loans Total Loans
Bangladesh $ 13,333 $ 85,334 $ 138,000 $ 236,667 0.56
China, People’s Rep. of 5)113,655 2,819,622 974,300 8,907,577 21.16
Fiji Islands 52,053 34,272 - 86,325 0.20
India 4,214,919 1,684,409 825,000 6,724,328 15.98
Indonesia 6,982,572 2,973,848 435,000 10,391,420 24.69
Kazakhstan 283,133 61,503 110,000 454,636 1.08
Korea, Rep. of 3,981,042 37353: - 3,984,395 9.47
Malaysia 497,694 107,007 = 604,701 1.44
Myanmar 864 - - 864 nas
Nauru 2,300 2,700 - 5,000 0.01
Nepal 43,703 1,381 = 45,084 0.11
Pakistan 2,223,435 463,065 150,000 2,836,500 6.74
Papua New Guinea 150,061 101,506 20,600 272,167 0.65
Philippines 2,534,363 1,618,232 249,003 4,401,598 10.46
Sri Lanka 15,314 30,000 15,000 60,314 0.14
Thailand 2,002,264 584,093 - 2,586,357 6.14
Uzbekistan 74,782 112,915 177,000 364,697 0.87
Viet Nam 41,239 28,761 35,000 105,000 0.25
28,226,726 10,712,001 3,128,903 42,067,630 99.95
Regional 4,000 16,000 - 20,000 0.05
TOTAL — 31 December 2000 28,230,726 10,728,001 3,128,903 42,087,630 100.00
Allowance for possible losses (75,610) (75,610)

 

NET BALANCE - 31 December 2000 $28,155,116 $10,728,001 $3,128,903 $42,012,020

Made up of loans to:
Members and guaranteed by members $27,825,302 $10,657,925 $2,822,903 $41,306,130
Private sector (net of allowance for

 

 

 

 

 

possible losses) 329,814 70,076 306,000 705,890
Net balance — 31 December 2000 $28,155,116 $10,728,001 $3,128,903 $42,012,020
TOTAL — 31 December 1999 $28,344,141 $11,674,073 $1,919,574 $41,937,788

Allowance for possible losses (72,991) (72,991)

 

NET BALANCE - 31 December 1999 $28,271,150 $11,674,073 $1,919,574 $41,864,797

Made up of loans to:
Members and guaranteed by members $27,936,529 $11,533,289 $1,769,574 $41,239,392
Private sector (net of allowance for
possible losses) 334,621 140,784 150,000 625,405

Net balance — 31 December 1999 $28,271,150 $11,674,073 $1,919,574 $41,864,797

 

 

 

 

 

The interest rates charged on loans outstanding range from 5.75% per annum to 11.00% per annum on loans to governments or with governmentguarantee and 6.33% per annum to 13.73% per annum for loans to the private sector. Amounts outstanding on loans made under the Pool-Based Variable
Interest Rate System and market-based variable interest rate loans totaled $27,298,476 ($27,113,648 — 1999). The average yield on loans in 2000 was 6.59%
(6.41% — 1999).

Of the undisbursed balances, ADB has made irrevocable commitments to disburse various amounts totaling $165,122 ($309,432 — 1999).
Below 0.01%.

See notes to financial statements (OCR-8).Financial Statements 151

eee reeeseerseeeceeceecee eee ese reese eee nese eeE®

 

OCR-5
MATURITY OF EFFECTIVE LOANS
Twelve Months Five Years
Ending Ending
31 December Amount 31 December Amount
2001 $1270.57 2010 13,770,360
2002 1,460,540 2015 10,096,491
2003 1,595,928 2020 5,594,599
2004 1,695,367 2025 1,586,042
2005 1,779,956 2028 108,873
Total $38,958,727
SUMMARY OF CURRENCIES RECEIVABLE ON LOANS OUTSTANDING
Currency 2000 1999 Currency 2000 1999
Australian dollar $ 122 $ 188 New Zealand dollar 624 983
Deutsche mark - 7,000 Swiss franc 121,459 978,709
Euro 14,350 20,370 United States dollar 19,018,616 16,563,028
Japanese yen 9,075,555 10,773,863

Total $28,230,726 $28,344,141152 ANNUAL REPORT 2000

Ce

ASIAN DEVELOPMENT BANK-ORDINARY CAPITAL RESOURCES
SUMMARY STATEMENT OF BORROWINGS

31 December 2000 and 1999

Expressed in Thousands of United States Dollars (Note B)

 

 

Borrowings
Weighted Average
Principal Outstanding! Cost (%)
2000 1999 2000

Long-Term Borrowing:
Australian dollar $ 838,125 $ 969,000 5:57
Austrian schilling 67,578 73,093 8.08
Canadian dollar 165,585 172,307 7.88
Deutsche mark - Euro 714,745 773,071 5.55
Hong Kong dollar 256,419 385,976 7.91
Japanese yen 5531-275: 6,549,570 4.60
Korean won 63,885 69,777 12.33
Netherlands guilder 296,030 329,336 7.08
New Taiwan dollar 590,717 622,716 5.73
Pound sterling 480,754 522,615 8.86
Swiss franc 844,384 1,013,278 4.80
United States dollar 15,490,881 14,418,609 6.38

Subtotal 25,340,378 25,899,348 5.97
Short-Term Borrowing:
United States dollar - 370,000 Principal amount

outstanding 25,340,378 26,269,348 5.977
Unamortized discounts

and premiums 26,797 16,103

TOTAL $25,367,175 $26,285,451

 

MATURITY STRUCTURE OF BORROWINGS OUTSTANDING °

Twelve Months Five Years

Ending Ending
31 December Amount 31 December Amount

2001 $1,939,945 2010 5,061,008
2002 5,687,728 2015 438,520
2003 4,617,677 2020 138,525
2004 4,440,362 2025 43,852
2005 2,972,761

Total $25,340,378

1 Includes zero coupon borrowings which have been recorded at their discounted values. The aggregate face amounts and discounted values of these
borrowings (in United States dollar equivalents) are:

 

Aggregate Face Amount Discounted Value
Currency 2000 1999 2000 1999
Swiss franc $ 300,313 $ 307,064 $138,526 $134,565

United States dollar 1,254,591 1,254,591 979,258 906,987Currency Swap Arrangements?

Payable (Receivable)

Average Cost
(Return) %

Weighted

Financial Statements 153

CO

OCR-6

Net Currency Obligation

 

 

 

 

2000 1999 2000 2000 1999
$ (835,049) $ (964,236) (5.57) $ 3,076 $ 4,764
(67,753) (3,313) (8.08) (175) (220)
(165,080) (171,570) (7.88) 505 737
(714,747) (773,074) (5.55) (714,747) (773,074)
_ = - 714,745 773,071
(256,393) (385,801) (7.91) 26 175
2,200,546 2,999,202 5.397 7,512,561 9,402,288
(219,260) (146,484) (3.97)*
(63,885) (69,777) (12.33) - (295,597) (328,771) (7.08) 433 565
(590,517) (622,442) (5.73) 200 274
(333,813) (362,497) (7.47) 146,941 160,118
315,496 331,802 6.23 792,597 907,023
(367,283) (438,057) (2.70)
4,117,694 4,153,511 5.774 17,575,255 16,241,267
(2,033,320) (2,330,853) (7.03)4
- - - - 370,000
INTEREST RATE SWAP ARRANGEMENTS®
Average Rate (%)
Notional Receive Pay Maturing
Amount Fixed Floating Through
Receive Fixed Swaps:
Australian dollar’ $ 263,112 6.34 4.89 2001-2005
Deutsche mark® 87,704 4.40 3.62 2010
Japanese yen 87,704 5.50 0.16 2004
United States dollar 3,731,840 6.02 6.34 2002-2004
Receive Floating Swaps:
Japanese yen 438,519 2.01 4.56 2002-2004
United States dollar 20,900 6.78 7.06 2007-2014
Total $4,629,779

2. The weighted average cost of borrowings outstanding at 31 December 2000, after adjustment for swap activities, was 5.81% (5.66% - 1999).
3 At 31 December 2000, the remaining duration of currency swap agreements ranged from 1 to 22 years. Approximately 22.76 % of the currency swap

receivables and 23.91% of the payables are due from 31 December 2005 through 1 August 2022.
4 Includes cost of related interest rate swap transaction.

5 Bonds with put options were considered maturing on the first put date.
6 The interest rate swap information is based on interest rates at 31 December 2000. To the extent that interest rates change, variable interest rate

information will change.

7 Consists of a currency coupon swap with interest receivable in Australian dollar and interest payable in Japanese yen.
8 Consists of a currency coupon swap with interest receivable in Deutsche mark and interest payable in Japanese yen.

See notes to financial statements (OCR-8).154 ANNUAL REPORT 2000

Oe

ASIAN DEVELOPMENT BANK-ORDINARY CAPITAL RESOURCES
STATEMENT OF SUBSCRIPTIONS TO CAPITAL STOCK AND VOTING POWER
31 December 2000

Expressed in Thousands of United States Dollars (Note B)

 

SUBSCRIBED CAPITAL VOTING POWER
Number Percent Par Value of Shares Number Percent
MEMBER of Shares _ of Total Total Callable Paid-in of Votes of Total
REGIONAL
Afghanistan 1,195 0.034 $ 15,570 $ 10,593 $ 4,977 15,918 0.366
Australia 204,740 5.892 2,667,578 2,480,767 186,811 219,463 5.053
Azerbaijan 15,736 0.453 205,026 190,603 14,423 30,459 0.701
Bangladesh 36,128 1.040 470,715 437,752 32,964 50,851 ATA
Bhutan 220 0.006 2,866 2,567 300 14,943 0.344
Cambodia 1,750 0.050 22,801 18,918 3,883 16,473 0.379
China, People’s Rep. of 228,000 6.562 2,970,635 2,762,547 208,088 242,723 5.588
Cook Islands 94 0.003 1,225 1,147 78 14,817 0.341
Fiji Islands 2,406 0.069 31,348 29,146 2,202 17,129 0.394
Hong Kong, China 19,270 0.555 251,071 233,481 17,589 33,993 0.783
India 224,010 6.447 2,918,649 2,714,261 204,387 238,733 5.497
Indonesia 192,700 5.546 2,510,708 2,334,893 175,815 207,423 4.776
Japan 552,210 15.893 7,194,799 6,690,938 503,861 566,933 13.053
Kazakhstan 28,536 0.821 371,798 345,753 26,045 43,259 0.996
Kiribati 142 0.004 1,850 1,720 130 14,865 0.342
Korea, Rep. of 178,246 5.130 2,322,385 2,159,769 162,616 192,969 4.443
Kyrgyz Republic 10,582 0.305 137,874 128,219 9,655 25,305 0.583
Lao PDR 492 0.014 6,410 5,720 691 15;215 0.350
Malaysia 96,350 2773 1,255,354 1,167,433 87,920 111,073 2.557
Maldives 142 0.004 1,850 1,720 130 14,865 0.342
Marshall Islands 94 0.003 17225 1,147 78 14,817 0.341
Micronesia, Fed. States of 142 0.004 1,850 1,720 130 14,865 0.342
Mongolia 532 0.015 6,931 6,449 482 15,255 0.351
Myanmar 19,270 0.555 251,071 233,481 17,589 33,993 0.783
Nauru 142 0.004 1,850 1,720 130 14,865 0.342
Nepal 5,202 0.150 67,777 63,022 4,756 19,925 0.459
New Zealand 54,340 1.564 708,001 658,426 49,576 69,063 1.590
Pakistan 77,080 2.218 1,004,283 933,952 70,331 91,803 2.114
Papua New Guinea 3,320 0.096 43,257 40,247 3,010 18,043 0.415
Philippines 84,304 2.426 1,098,405 1,021,494 76,911 99,027 2.280
Samoa 116 0.003 1514 1,355 156 14,839 0.342
Singapore 12,040 0.347 156,870 145,887 10,984 26,763 0.616
Solomon Islands 236 0.007 3,075 2,866 208 14,959 0.344
Sri Lanka 20,520 0.591 267,357 248,634 18,723 35,243 0.811
Taipei,China 38,540 1.109 502,142 466,989 35/153 53,263 1.226
Tajikistan 10,134 0.292 132,037 122,747 9,290 24,857 0.572
Thailand 48,174 1.386 627,664 583,704 43,960 62,897 1.448
Tonga 142 0.004 1,850 1,720 130 14,865 0.342
Turkmenistan 8,958 0.258 116,715 108,506 8,208 23,681 0.545
Tuvalu 50 0.001 651 599 52 14,773 0.340
Uzbekistan 23,834 0.686 310,536 288,790 21,746 38,557 0.888
Vanuatu 236 0.007 3,075 2,866 208 14,959 0.344

Viet Nam 12,076 0.348 157,339 139,294 18,045 26,799 0.617
Total Regional (Forward) 2,212,431 63.674 $28,825,985 $26,793,562 $2,032,423 2,845,520 65.515Financial Statements 155

CO

 

 

OCR-7
SUBSCRIBED CAPITAL VOTING POWER
Number Percent Par Value of Shares Number Percent
MEMBER of Shares of Total Total Callable Paid-in of Votes of Total

Total Regional (Forward) 2,212,431 63.674 $28,825,985 $26,793,562 $2,032,423 2,845,520 65.515

 

NONREGIONAL

 

Austria 12,040 0.347 156,870 145,887 10,984 26,763 0.616
Belgium 12,040 0.347 156,870 145,887 10,984 26,763 0.616
Canada 185,086 5,327 2,411,504 2,242,634 168,870 199,809 4.600
Denmark 12,040 0.347 156,870 145,887 10,984 26,763 0.616
Finland 12,040 0.347 156,870 145,887 10,984 26,763 0.616
France 82,356 2.370 1,073,025 997,873 75,152 97,079 2.235
Germany 153,068 4.405 1,994,338 1,854,666 139,672 167,791 3.863
Italy 63,950 1.840 833,211 774,854 58,357 78,673 1.811
Netherlands 36,294 1.045 472,878 439,771 33,107 51,017 1.175
Norway 12,040 0.347 156,870 145,887 10,984 26,763 0.616
Spain 12,040 0.347 156,870 145,887 10,984 26,763 0.616
Sweden 12,040 0.347 156,870 145,887 10,984 26,763 0.616
Switzerland 20,650 0.594 269,051 250,198 18,853 35,373 0.814
Turkey 12,040 0.347 156,870 145,887 10,984 26,763 0.616
United Kingdom 72,262 2.080 941,509 875,582 65,927 86,985 2.003
United States 552,210 15.893 7,194,799 6,690,938 503,861 566,933 ‘13.053
Total Nonregional 1,262,196 36.326 16,445,278 15,293,610 1,151,668 1,497,764 34.485
TOTAL 3,474,627 100.000 $45,271,263 $42,087,172 $3,184,091 4,343,284 100.000

 

Note: Figures may not add due to rounding.

See notes to financial statements (OCR-8).156 ANNUAL REPORT 2000

Oe

ASIAN DEVELOPMENT BANK-ORDINARY CAPITAL RESOURCES

NOTES TO FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
31 December 2000 and 1999

NOTE A-NATURE OF OPERATIONS AND
LIMITATIONS ON LOANS, GUARANTEES,
AND EQUITY INVESTMENTS

Nature of Operations

The Asian Development Bank (ADB), a multilateral development finance institution, was established in 1966 with its
headquarters in Manila, Philippines. ADB and its operations
are governed by the Agreement Establishing the Asian Development Bank (the Charter). Its purpose is to foster economic development and co-operation in the Asian and Pacific
region and to contribute to the acceleration of the process of
economic development of the developing member countries
(DMCs) in the region, collectively and individually. ADB provides financial and technical assistance (TA) for projects and
programs which will contribute to achieving this purpose.

Mobilizing financial resources, including cofinancing, is an
integral part of ADB’s operational activities. In addition, ADB,
alone or jointly, administers on behalf of donors, including
members, their agencies and other development institutions,
funds restricted for specific uses which include technical assistance grants as well as regional programs.

ADB's ordinary operations comprise loans, equity investments, and guarantees. It finances its ordinary operations
through borrowings, paid-in capital, and retained earnings.

Limitations on Loans, Guarantees, and Equity Investments

Article 12, paragraph 1 of the Charter provides that the total
amount outstanding of loans, equity investments, and guarantees made by ADB shall not exceed the total of ADB's
unimpaired subscribed capital, reserves, and surplus, exclusive of the special reserve. At 31 December 2000, the total of
such loans, equity investments, and guarantees aggregated
approximately 80.7% (77.4% ~-1999) of the total subscribed
capital, reserves, and surplus as defined.

Article 12, paragraph 3 of the Charter provides that equity
investments shall not exceed 10% of the unimpaired paid-in
capital together with reserves and surplus, exclusive of the
special reserve. At 31 December 2000, such equity investments represented approximately 3.7% (3.5% — 1999) of the
paid-in capital, reserves, and surplus, as defined.

NOTE B-SUMMARY OF SIGNIFICANT
ACCOUNTING POLICIES

Functional Currencies and Reporting Currency

The currencies of members are all functional currencies. The
reporting currency is the United States dollar, and the financial statements are expressed in thousands of current United
States dollars.

Valuation of Capital Stock

The authorized capital stock of ADB is defined in Article 4,
paragraph 1 of the Charter ‘in terms of United States dollars
of the weight and fineness in effect on 31 January 1966” (the
1966 dollar) and the value of each share is defined as 10,000
1966 dollars. The capital stock had historically been translated into the current United States dollar (ADB’s unit of
account) on the basis of its par value in terms of gold. From
1973 until 31 March 1978, the rate arrived at on this basis
was $1.20635 per 1966 dollar. Since 1 April 1978, at which
time the Second Amendment to the Articles of Agreement of
the International Monetary Fund (IMF) came into effect, currencies no longer have par values in terms of gold. Pending
ADB's selection of the appropriate successor to the 1966
dollar, the capital stock has been valued for purposes of
these financial statements in terms of the Special Drawing
Right (SDR) at the value in current United States dollars as
computed by the IMF, with each share valued at SDR10,000.

As of 31 December 2000, the value of the SDR in terms of
the current United States dollar was $1.30291 ($1.37338 1999) giving a value for each share of ADB’s capital equivalent to $13,029.10 ($13,733.80 - 1999). However, ADB could
decide to fix the value of each share at $12,063.50 based on
the 31 March 1978 par value of the United States dollar in
terms of gold.

Translation of Currencies

Assets and liabilities are translated from their functional
currencies to the reporting currency generally at the applicable rates of exchange at the end of a reporting period.
Income and expense amounts are translated for each semimonthly period generally at the applicable rates of exchange
at the beginning of each period; such practice approximates
the application of average rates in effect during the period.Translation adjustments other than those relating to maintenance of SDR capital values (see Notes I and J), are charged
or credited to “Accumulated translation adjustments” and
reported in “CAPITAL AND RESERVES’ as part of “Accumulated other comprehensive income.”

Investments

All investment securities held by ADB other than derivative
instruments are considered by Management to be available
for sale and are reported at estimated fair value, with unrealized gains and losses excluded from net income and reported in “CAPITAL AND RESERVES’ as part of “Accumulated
other comprehensive income.” All derivative instruments
are marked to market. Estimated fair value generally represents market value. Cost or amortized cost is used to approximate fair value for certain short-term investments not
traded in the market (time deposits, etc.). Realized gains and
losses are included in income from investments and are
measured by the difference between amortized cost and the
net proceeds of sales.

Loans

ADB's loans are made to or guaranteed by members, with
the exception of loans to the private sector, and have maturities ranging between 4 and 30 years. ADB requires its
borrowers to absorb exchange risks attributable to fluctuations in the value of the currencies which it has disbursed.
It is the policy of ADB to place in nonaccrual status loans for
which principal, interest, or other charges are overdue by six
months. Interest and other charges on nonaccruing loans
are included in income only to the extent that payments
have actually been received by ADB. ADB follows a policy of
not taking part in debt rescheduling agreements with respect to public sector loans. In the case of private sector
loans, ADB may agree to debt rescheduling only after alternative courses of action have been exhausted.

ADB determines that a loan is impaired and therefore
subject to provisioning when principal or interest is in arrears
for one year for public sector loans made to or guaranteed by
a member (unless there is clear and convincing evidence
warranting the deferment or acceleration of such provisioning)
and six months for private sector loans. If the present value of
expected future cash flows discounted at the loan’s effective
interest rate is less than the carrying value of the loan, a

Financial Statements 157

CO

OCR-8

CONTINUED

valuation allowance is established with a corresponding charge
to provision for possible losses.

ADB's periodic evaluation of the adequacy of the allowance for possible losses is based on its past loan loss experience, known and inherent risks in existing loans, and adverse
situations that may affect a borrower's ability to repay.

Equity Investments

Investments in equity securities without readily determinable fair values are reported at cost less an allowance for
possible losses.

Provisions for possible loss of value are established quarterly based on Management's evaluation of potential losses
for such investments. Equity securities with readily determinable fair values are reported at fair value, with unrealized
gains and losses excluded from net income and reported in
‘CAPITAL AND RESERVES” as part of “Accumulated other
comprehensive income.” ADB applies the equity method of
accounting to one investment where it has the ability to
exercise significant influence.

Property, Furniture, and Equipment

Property, furniture, and equipment are stated at cost and,
except for land, depreciated over estimated useful lives on a
straight-line basis. Maintenance, repairs, and minor betterments are charged to expense.

Accounting Estimates

The preparation of the financial statements in conformity
with generally accepted accounting principles requires Management to make estimates and assumptions that affect the
reported amounts of assets and liabilities and disclosure of
contingent liabilities at the end of the year and the reported
amounts of revenues and expenses during the year. The
actual results could differ from those estimates.

Statement of Cash Flows
For the purposes of the statement of cash flows, ADB con
siders that its cash and cash equivalents are limited to ‘DUE
FROM BANKS.”158 ANNUAL REPORT 2000

Oe

ASIAN DEVELOPMENT BANK-ORDINARY CAPITAL RESOURCES

NOTES TO FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
31 December 2000 and 1999

Reclassification

Certain 1999 amounts have been reclassified to conform
with the 2000 presentation.

NOTE C—RESTRICTIONS ON USE OF CURRENCIES
AND DEMAND OBLIGATIONS OF MEMBERS

In accordance with Article 24, paragraph 2(i) of the Charter,
the use by ADB or by any recipient from ADB of certain
currencies may be restricted by members to payments for
goods or services produced and intended for use in their
territories. With respect to the currencies of 39 DMCs for
2000 (38 - 1999), cash in banks (due from banks) and demand obligations totaling $54,221,000 ($63,377,000 - 1999)
and $233,767,000 ($233,248,000 - 1999), respectively, may
be, but are not currently so restricted.

In accordance with Article 24, paragraphs 2(i) and (ii) of
the Charter, two members have restricted the use by ADB or
by any recipient from ADB of their currencies to payments for
goods or services produced in their territories. Cash in banks
(due from banks), demand obligations of members, and investments totaling $45,000 ($23,000 - 1999), $2,966,000
($3,495,000 - 1999) and $4,604,000 ($3,427,000 - 1999),
respectively, have been so restricted.

NOTE D-NVESTMENTS
The currency compositions of the investment portfolio as of

31 December 2000 and 1999 expressed in United States
dollars were as follows:

Currency 2000 1999
Australian dollar $ 266,777,000 $ 301,277,000
Canadian dollar 251,606,000 321,462,000
Deutsche mark - 23,090,000
Euro 387,748,000 476,069,000
Italian lira - 17,854,000
Japanese yen 1,088,950,000 1,619,039,000
Pound sterling 226,308,000 244,327,000
Swiss franc 874,819,000 175,648,000
United States dollar 4,117,683,000 4 672,815,000
Others 319,117,000 347,110,000

Total $7,533,008,000  $8,198,691,000

The estimated fair value and amortized cost of the investments by contractual maturity at 31 December 2000 were as
follows:

Estimated Amortized

Fair Value Cost
Due in one year or less $3,002,103,000
Due after one year

$3,002, 161,000

through five years 4,243,280,000  4,180,204,000
Due after five years

through ten years 287,567,000 284,348,000

Total $7,533,008,000 $7,466,655,000

Additional information relating to investments in government and government-guaranteed obligations and other securities is as follows:

2000 1999

As of 31 December

Amortized cost $5,401,464,000 $4,572,373,000

Estimated fair value 5,467,817,000 4,555,258,000
Gross unrealized gains 66,458,000 551,000
Gross unrealized losses 105,000 17,666,000
For the years ended

31 December
Change in net unrealized

gains (losses) 83,468,000 (37,514,000)
Proceeds from sales 5,493,655,000 8,300,935,000
Gross realized gains 9,094,000 14,511,000
Gross realized losses 12,722,000 56,986,000

Investments are governed by the Investment Authority
approved by the Board of Directors. The main investment
management objective is to maintain security and liquidity.
Subject to these parameters, ADB seeks the highest possible
return on its investments.

In 1999, the Board of Directors approved a new Investment
Authority. The new Investment Authority allows investment
in higher-yielding investment instruments, such as high-quality corporate bonds, mortgage-backed securities, and assetbacked securities. Included in other securities as of 31 December 2000 are corporate bonds, asset-backed securities
and other obligations of banks amounting to $801,978,000
(nil - 1999), $269,991,000 (nil - 1999) and $772,511,000
($2,259,544,000 - 1999), respectively.ADB is restricted by its Investment Authority to invest in
(a) securities which are obligations of a limited class of issuers, primarily government or government-guaranteed obligations, multilateral banks and selected commercial banks; and
(b) derivatives of such securities. Exposure to interest rate risk
may be adjusted within defined bands to reflect changing
market circumstances. These adjustments are made through
the purchase and sale of both securities, financial futures and
options. To increase returns, ADB may invest in securities
denominated in currencies other than the originating functional currencies and then enter into covered forward foreign
exchange agreements in order to maintain its original mix of
functional currency holdings. Accordingly, the financial futures, options, and covered forwards are held for risk management rather than for trading purposes.

Asset-backed Securities: Asset-backed securities are instruments whose cash flow is based on the cash flows of a pool
of underlying assets managed by a trust.

Financial Statements 159

CO

OCR-8

CONTINUED

Futures: Futures are contracts for delayed delivery of securities or money market instruments in which the seller agrees
to make delivery at a specified future date of a specified
instrument at a specified price or yield. Initial margin requirements are met with cash or securities, and changes in
the market prices are settled daily. Changes in the market
value of open futures contracts are recognized as gains or
losses in the period of the change and included in income
from investments. At 31 December 2000, there were no
outstanding purchase nor sales contracts (nil - 1999).

NOTE E-EOANS AND GUARANTEES
Loans

The carrying amount and estimated fair value of loans outstanding at 31 December 2000 and 1999 were as follows:

 

2000

Carrying
Amount

Loans to the public
sector with interest
at variable rates

Loans to the public
sector with interest

$27,017,745,000

1999

Estimated
Fair Value

Estimated
Fair Value

Carrying
Amount

$27,017,745,000 $26,815,606,000 $26,815,606,000

983,315,000 1,120,923,000 1,386,947,000

359,132,000 334,621,000 352,283,000

 

at fixed rates 807,557,000
Loans to the private

sector 329,814,000

Total $28,155,116,000

$28,360,192,000 $28,271,150,000 $28,554,836,000

 

 

Prior to 1 July 1986, the lending rate of ADB was based on
a multicurrency fixed lending rate system under which loans
carried interest rates fixed at the time of loan approval for the
entire life of the loans. Effective 1 July 1986, ADB adopted a
multicurrency pool-based variable lending rate system. In
addition, in July 1992, ADB introduced a pool-based variable
United States dollar lending system, and in November 1994, a
market-based variable lending system was made available to
financial intermediaries in the public sector and to the private
sector. For loans to the private sector, approximately 66%

(72% - 1999) of the loans were based on a variable interest
rate.

Since 1988, ADB has charged front-end fees for private
sector loans. Effective 1 January 2000, ADB levies front-end
fee of 1% for new public sector loans for which the loan
negotiations are completed after that date. In addition, the
lending spread applied to all outstanding pool-based OCR
loans and new public sector market-based loans has been
increased from 0.4% to 0.6%. Also effective the same date, a
flat commitment fee of 0.75% is charged for new program160 ANNUAL REPORT 2000

Ce ee

ASIAN DEVELOPMENT BANK-ORDINARY CAPITAL RESOURCES

NOTES TO FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
31 December 2000 and 1999

loans, while the progressive commitment fee of 0.75% is
maintained for project loans. Front-end fee of $8,531,000 for
the year ended 31 December 2000 was offset against loan
origination costs and recognized as a reduction in administrative expenses.

Undisbursed loan commitments and an analysis of loans
by borrowing member countries as of 31 December 2000 are
shown in OCR-5. The carrying amounts of loan outstanding
by loan products at 31 December 2000 and 1999 were as
follows:

2000 1999.
Public Sector

Fixed rate

multicurrency loans $ 748,078,000 $ 1,044,517,000
Pool-based

multicurrency loans 8,617,170,000 10,918,735,000
Pool-based single

currency (US$) loans 14,215,879,000 11,773,000,000
Market-based loans —

floating rate 4,244 175,000 4 200,277,000

27,825,302,000  27,936,529,000

Private Sector
Pool-based

multicurrency loans 19,221,000 26,746,000
Currency specific loans 208,729,000 217,899,000
Private sector

facility loans 15,672,000 24,673,000
Market-based loans 
floating rate 131,588,000 115,203,000
Market-based loans 
fixed rate 26,214,000 10,917,000
Revolving facility 
AFIC 4,000,000 12,174,000

405,424,000 407,612,000

Less: Allowance for
possible loss 75,610,000 72,991,000
329,814,000 334,621,000
Total $28,155,116,000 $28,271,150,000

Public Sector Loans

The fair value of loans outstanding to or guaranteed by
members with interest rates which vary based on the poolbased variable lending rate system and with market-based
variable interest rates was determined using the entry value

method. Under this method, fair value was determined based
on the terms at which a similar loan would currently be
made by ADB to a similar borrower. For such loans, fair
value approximated the carrying amount. For undisbursed
balances of effective loans and for loans not yet effective,
the contractual amount approximated fair value.

The fair value of loans outstanding to or guaranteed by
members with fixed interest rates (principally loans made
prior to 1 July 1986) was determined using a discounted cash
flow method. This method takes into account the scheduled
cash flows over the average life, by currency, of the loans, and
current funding costs for the average life, including a factor
for administrative costs.

The estimated fair value of loans to or guaranteed by
members was not affected by credit risks based on ADB's
experience with its borrowers.

Two public sector loans to Myanmar were in nonaccrual
status as of 31 December 2000 (two - 1999). The principal
outstanding and overdue at that date was $864,000 ($929,000
- 1999). Loans in nonaccrual status resulted in $66,000 ($68,000
- 1999) not being recognized as income from public sector
loans for the year ended 31 December 2000. The accumulated
interest and other charges on these loans that were not recognized as income as of 31 December 2000 would have
totaled $207,000 ($141,000 - 1999).

Private Sector Loans

The fair value of loans outstanding to the private sector with
interest rates which vary based on the pool-based variable
lending rate system and with market-based variable interest
rates was determined using the entry value method. The fair
value of loans outstanding to the private sector with fixed
interest rates was determined using a discounted cash flow
method.

Twelve private sector loans were in nonaccrual status as
of 31 December 2000 (eleven - 1999). The principal outstanding at that date was $77,699,000 ($72,048,000 - 1999) of
which $42,116,000 ($30,770,000 -1999) was overdue. Loans
in nonaccrual status resulted in $7,214,000 ($6,289,000 -1999)
not being recognized in income from private sector loans for
the year ended 31 December 2000. The accumulated interest
and other charges on these loans that were not recognized as
of 31 December 2000 would have totaled $21,704,000
($14,490,000 - 1999).Financial Statements 161

OCR-8
CONTINUED
Loan Loss Provision The changes in the allowance for possible loan losses
during 2000 and 1999 were as follows:
ADB has not suffered any losses of principal on public sector
loans. No loan loss provisions have been made against out- 2000 1999
standing public sector loans, but loan loss provisions have oa an, an en
been made against private sector loans during the year (see Eas om enue) $72,991,000 BO ey ud
Provision during the year 3,045,000 11,014,000
Note K). Translation adjustments (426,000) 470,000
Information pertaining to loans which are subject to loan Balance -31 December $75,610,000 $72,991,000
loss provisions at 31 December 2000 and 1999 is as follows: —————— a
2000 1999 Loan Guarantees and Cofinancings
Loans not subject to ADB extends guarantees for the benefit of its members which
moss Eibject to $28,148,427,000 |$28,267,493,000 are not reflected in the financial statements. Such guaranloss provisions 82,299,000 76,648,000 tees include partial credit guarantees where only certain
Total $28,230,726,000 $28,344,141,000 principal and/or interest payments are covered. Such guaranteed payments are generally due 10 or more years from
Average amount of the loan inception date. The present value of the contingent
loans subject to future payment obligations of all outstanding guarantees at
loss provisions $ 83,601,000 $ 79,534,000 js i
Related interest 31 December 2000 and 1999 is used to calculate ADB’s
income on such lending limitation. None of these amounts were subject to
loans _ $ 6,429,000 $ 5,687,000 call as of that date. ADB estimates that the fair value of
Gasturectived on guarantees outstanding at 31 December 2000 approximates
income on such their present value. The estimated fair value of loans to or
loans $ 1,506,000 $ 1,431,000 guaranteed by members was not affected by credit risks

based on ADB's experience with its borrowers.
As of 31 December 2000 and 1999, the outstanding amount
and present value of ADB’s guarantee obligations covered:

 

 

 

 

2000 1999
Outstanding Outstanding
Guaranteed Present Guaranteed Present
Amount Value Amount Value
Complementary Loans
China, People’s Rep. of $ 28,709,000 $ 19,361,000 $ 29,358,000 $ 16,361,000
India 65,778,000 40,849,000 73,242,000 36,876,000
Indonesia 24,987,000 16,709,000 27,822,000 15,395,000
Papua New Guinea 1,601,000 1,515,000 2,695,000 2,419,000
Subtotal 121,075,000 78,434,000 133,117,000 71,051,000
Bond Issue
Philippines 105,245,000 42,702,000 117,188,000 34,340,000
Term Loans
Sri Lanka 115,268,000 74,103,000 117,568,000 62,051,000

 

Total $341,588,000 $195,239,000 $367,873,000 $167,442,000162 ANNUAL REPORT 2000

OO

ASIAN DEVELOPMENT BANK-ORDINARY CAPITAL RESOURCES

NOTES TO FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
31 December 2000 and 1999

ADB functions as lead lender in cofinancing arrangements
with other participating financial institutions who also provide funds to ADB's public and private sector borrowers. In
such capacity, ADB provides loan administration services,
which include loan disbursement and loan collection. The

2000

Amount
Public sector loans $1,212,135,000
Private sector loans 271,844,000
Total $1,483,979,000

During the year ended 31 December 2000, a total of $224,000
($510,000 - 1999) was received as compensation for arranging and administering such loans. This amount has been
included in ‘Income from Other Sources.”

NOTE F-EQUITY INVESTMENTS

ADB's investments in equity securities issued by private
enterprises located in DMCs include a $12,511,000
($11,908,000 - 1999) investment in the Asian Finance and
Investment Corporation Ltd. (AFIC) which is accounted for
on the equity method. The holding represents 30.3% of the
investee’s issued ordinary share capital and net assets. ADB
also holds 100% of AFIC issued convertible noncumulative
preference shares in the amount of $25,000,000 ($25,000,000
~1999). In September 2000, ADB together with other financiers, renewed the revolving credit facility up to a maximum
aggregate principal amount outstanding at any time of
$45,000,000 ($92,000,000 -1999). ADB's obligations amount
to $20,000,000, of which, at 31 December 2000, the outstanding loan is $4,000,000 ($12,174,000 -1999). This amount
has been included in “Loans Outstanding” (see Note E).
Unrealized gains on equity investments reported at market
value were $3,003,000 at 31 December 2000 ($19,838,000 —
1999) and are reported in ‘CAPITAL AND RESERVES" as part
of “Accumulated other comprehensive income.”
Undisbursed equity investment commitments were
$185,377,000 at 31 December 2000 ($149,928,000 - 1999).

participating financial institutions have no recourse to ADB
for their outstanding loan balances.

Loans administered by ADB on behalf of participating
institutions as of 31 December 2000 and 1999 were as
follows:

 

 

1999
No. of No. of
Loans Amount Loans
44 $1,617,530,000 44
12 253,454,000 12
56 $1,870,984,000 56

NOTE G-PROPERTY, FURNITURE, AND EQUIPMENT

In 1991, under the terms of an agreement with the Philippines
(Government), ADB returned the former headquarters premises which had been provided by the Government. In accordance with the agreement as supplemented by a
memorandum of understanding, ADB was compensated
$22,657,000 for the return of these premises. The compensation is in lieu of being provided premises under the agreement and accordingly, is deferred and amortized over the
estimated life of the new headquarters building as a reduction of occupancy expense. The amortization for the year
ended 31 December 2000 amounted to $567,000 ($566,000 1999) reducing depreciation expense for the new headquarters building from $4,700,000 ($4,700,000 -1999) to $4,133,000
($4,134,000 -1999). At 31 December 2000, the unamortized
deferred compensation balance (included in “ACCOUNTS
PAYABLE AND OTHER LIABILITIES — Miscellaneous’) was
$17,040,000 ($17,607,000 - 1999). At 31 December 2000,
accumulated depreciation for property, furniture, and equipment was $78,898,000 ($69,910,000 - 1999).

NOTE H-BORROWINGS AND SWAPS

ADB uses derivative financial instruments in connection
with its borrowing activities to diversify its funding sources
across public and private debt markets, currencies and instruments. Currency swaps are used to convert a currency
borrowed under advantageous terms into one of ADB’s major
operational currencies, taking advantage of the opportuni-ties offered in different financial markets. Such currency
swaps enable ADB to raise operationally needed currencies
in a cost-efficient way and to maintain its borrowing presence in the major capital markets. Interest rate swaps are
used generally to reduce balance sheet interest rate mismatches arising from lending operations.

ADB issues structured debt which includes embedded currency and/or interest rate derivatives in order to decrease its
cost of borrowing. However, ADB enters into simultaneous
currency and/or interest rate swaps to hedge fully against the
effects of such embedded derivatives.

ADB has a potential risk of loss if the swap counterparty
fails to perform its obligations (see Note O). In order to reduce
such credit risk, ADB only enters into long-term swap transactions with counterparties eligible under ADB’s swap guidelines which include a requirement that the counterparties
have a credit rating of double A or higher. ADB does not
anticipate that any of its counterparties will fail to perform
their obligations under such agreements.

Interest rate swaps: Under a typical interest rate swap agreement used by ADB, one party agrees to make periodic payments based on a notional principal amount and an interest
rate that is fixed at the outset of the agreement. The
counterparty agrees to make floating rate payments based
on the same notional principal amount. Amounts receivable
or payable under the terms of the swap are accrued over the

2000

Financial Statements 163

eee recesses eeeeeeceecce eee ese seer eeeeeeeeeE®

OCR-8

CONTINUED

period to which the payment relates and the related cost or
income is included in interest and other financial expenses.
The terms of ADB's interest rate swap agreements specifically match the terms of particular borrowings.

Currency swaps: Under a typical currency swap agreement,
one party agrees to make periodic payments in one currency
while the counterparty agrees to make periodic payments in
another currency. The payments may be fixed at the outset
of the agreement or vary based on interest rates. A receivable is created for the currency swapped out, and a payable
is created for the currency swapped in. Swap premiums and
discounts are deferred and amortized over the life of the
underlying instruments. Such amortizations are included in
interest and other financial expenses. The terms of ADB's
currency swap agreements specifically match the terms of
particular borrowings.

The fair value of borrowings outstanding is estimated using prevailing market prices where available, or estimated
replacement values where market prices are not available.

The fair value of outstanding currency and interest rate
swap agreements are determined at the estimated amount
that ADB would receive or pay to terminate the agreements
based upon market quotes from dealers.

As of 31 December 2000 and 1999, the carrying amounts
and estimated fair values of borrowings and swaps were as
follows:

1999

 

Carrying
Amount

Balance sheet
financial instruments:

Borrowings $25,367,175,000

Currency swap

receivables 5,942,697,000

Currency swap

payables 6,633,736,000

Notional
Amount

Off-balance sheet
financial instruments:

Interest rate swaps $ 4,629,779,000

Estimated
Fair Value

Estimated
Fair Value

Carrying
Amount

$25,937,318,000 $26,285,451,000 $26,315,305,000

6,143,773,000 6,666,875,000 6,779,405,000

6,887,112,000 7,484,515,000 7,767,028,000

Unrealized Notional Unrealized
Gain (Loss) Amount Gain (Loss)
$ 36,937,000 $ 4,713,402,000 $ (75,534,000)164 ANNUAL REPORT 2000

Oe

ASIAN DEVELOPMENT BANK-ORDINARY CAPITAL RESOURCES

NOTES TO FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
31 December 2000 and 1999

NOTE I-CAPITAL STOCK, CAPITAL TRANSFERRED
TO ASIAN DEVELOPMENT FUND, MAINTENANCE
OF VALUE OF CURRENCY HOLDINGS, AND
MEMBERSHIP

Capital Stock

The authorized capital stock of ADB as of the end of 2000
and 1999 consists of 3,490,994 shares, of which 3,474,627
shares (3,465,669 - 1999) have been subscribed by members. Of the subscribed shares, 3,230,244 (3,221,916 -1999)
are “callable” and 244,383 (243,753 - 1999) are “paid-in.”

The “callable” share capital is subject to call by ADB only as
and when required to meet ADB's obligations incurred on
borrowings of funds for inclusion in its ordinary capital
resources or on guarantees chargeable to such resources.
The “paid-in” share capital has been paid or is payable in
installments, partly in convertible currencies and partly in
the currency of the subscribing member which may be convertible. In accordance with Article 6, paragraph 3 of the
Charter, ADB accepts nonnegotiable, noninterest-bearing
demand obligations in satisfaction of the portion payable in
the currency of the member, provided such currency is not
required by ADB for the conduct of its operations. The settlement of such amounts is not determinable and, accordingly,
it is not practicable to determine a fair value for these
receivables.

As of 31 December 2000, all matured installments amounting to $3,111,859,000 ($3,187,229,000 - 1999) were received
except for $1,169,000 ($1,943,000 - 1999) from two countries
(two - 1999). Installments not due aggregating $72,232,000
($160,426,000 - 1999) are receivable as follows:

Year ending 31 December:

2001 $52,550,000 2003
2002 17,630,000

$2,052,000

Payments in respect of capital subscription installments in
advance of due dates are shown in the balance sheet (under
the caption “ACCOUNTS PAYABLE AND OTHER LIABILITIES”)
as “Advance payments on subscriptions” pending the determination of the full value of such payments based on the rate
of exchange to be used by ADB as of the date on which such
payments are actually due.

Capital Transferred to Asian Development Fund

Pursuant to the provisions of Article 19, paragraph 1 (i) of the
Charter, the Board of Governors has authorized the setting
aside of 10% of the unimpaired ‘paid-in” capital paid by
members pursuant to Article 6, paragraph 2(a) of the Charter
and of the convertible currency portion paid by members
pursuant to Article 6, paragraph 2(b) of the Charter as of 28
April 1973 to be used as a part of the Special Funds of ADB.
The resources so set aside amounting to $62,031,000 as of
31 December 2000 ($65,386,000 - 1999) expressed in terms
of the SDR on the basis of $1.30291 ($1.37338 - 1999) per
SDR ($57,434,000 in terms of $1.20635 per 1966 dollar—see
Note B), were allocated and transferred to the Asian Development Fund.

Maintenance of Value of Currency Holdings

Prior to 1 April 1978, the effective date of the Second Amendment to the IMF Articles, ADB implemented maintenance of
value in respect of holdings of member currencies in terms
of 1966 dollars, in accordance with the provisions of Article
25 of the Charter and relevant resolutions of the Board of
Directors. The “Amounts required to maintain value of currency holdings" under “RECEIVABLE FROM MEMBERS" rep
resent the aggregate amounts receivable resulting from
changes in exchange rates of member currencies from those
previously used for the purpose of computing maintenance
of value of ADB's holdings of certain member currencies.
The settlement of such amounts is not determinable and,
accordingly, it is not practicable to determine a fair value for
these receivables.

Since 1 April 1978, inasmuch as the valuation of ADB’s
capital stock and the basis of determining possible maintenance of value obligations are still under consideration, notional amounts have been calculated provisionally as receivable from or payable to members in order to maintain the
value of currency holdings in terms of the SDR. The timing of
any establishment and settlement of such amounts is uncertain and, accordingly, it is not practicable to determine a fair
value for such receivables and payables. The notional amounts
as of 31 December 2000 consisting of receivables of
$677,808,000 ($708,431,000 - 1999) and payables of
$279,051,000 ($340,351,000 -1999) consist of (a) the increase
of $239,791,000 ($369,650,000 -1999) in amounts required to
maintain the value of currency holdings to the extent of ma-tured and paid capital subscriptions due to the increase in the
value of the SDR in relation to the United States dollar during
the period from 1 April 1978 to 31 December 2000 and (b) the
net decrease of $158,966,000 (increase of $1,570,000 -1999)
in the value of such currency holdings in relation to the United
States dollar during the same period.

Membership

As of 31 December 2000, ADB is owned by 59 member
countries, 43 countries from the region and 16 countries
from outside the region (see OCR-7). As at 31 December
2000, Turkmenistan has subscribed to 8,958 shares (15,736
shares by Azerbaijan - 1999) of ADB's capital stock and
remitted the required paid-in portion of its subscription.

NOTE J-RESERVES
Ordinary Reserve and Net Income

Under the provisions of Article 40 of the Charter, the Board
of Governors shall determine annually what part of the net
income shall be allocated, after making provision for reserves, to surplus and what part, if any, shall be distributed
to the members. During 2000, $449,873,000 of the net income for the year ended 31 December 1999 was allocated to
the Ordinary Reserve ($464,257,000 — 1999).

The restatement of the capital stock for purposes of these
financial statements on the basis of the SDR instead of the
1966 dollar (see Note B) resulted in a net credit of $27,738,000
to the Ordinary Reserve during the year ended 31 December
2000 ($13,514,000 - 1999). That credit is the decrease in the
value of the matured and paid capital subscriptions caused by
the change during the year in the value of the SDR in relation
to the United States dollar not allocated to members as notional maintenance of value adjustments in accordance with
resolutions of the Board of Directors.

Special Reserve

The Special Reserve includes commissions on loans and
guarantee fees on guarantees set aside pursuant to Article 17
of the Charter. Special Reserve assets consist of term deposits
and government and government-guaranteed obligations and
are included under the heading “INVESTMENTS.” The amount
of guarantee fees earned of $604,000 for 2000 did not fully

Financial Statements 165

eee recesses eeeeeeceecce eee ese seer eeeeeeeeeE®

OCR-8

CONTINUED

cover the net charge of $896,000 in 1999 resulting from the
guarantee refund made to Thailand. As such, no amount was
appropriated to Special Reserve for 2000 (nil -1999).

Surplus

During 2000, the Board of Governors allocated $80,000,000
($80,000,000 -1999) out of Surplus to Technical Assistance
Special Fund. Surplus represents funds for future use to be
determined by the Board of Governors.

Comprehensive Income and Accumulated Other
Comprehensive Income

Comprehensive income has two major components: net income and other comprehensive income. Other comprehensive income includes such items as unrealized gains and
losses on available-for-sale securities and listed equity investments, as well as foreign currency translation adjustments.

NOTE K4+NCOME AND EXPENSES

Total income from loans for the year ended 31 December
2000 was $1,861,334,000 ($1,674,635,000 -1999). The average yield on the loan portfolio during the year was 6.59%
(6.41% - 1999).

Total income from investments for the year ended 31 December 2000 was $399,862,000 ($343,951,000 - 1999). The
annualized rate of return on the average investments held
during the year, based on the portfolio held at the beginning
and end of each month, excluding unrealized gains and losses,
was 5.03% (3.96% - 1999). If unrealized gains and losses were
included, the annualized rate of return would have been
6.09% (3.54% — 1999).

Income from other sources includes an increase in the
share of the net assets of an equity investment of $667,000
($1,573,000 - 1999) accounted for on the equity method and
gains of $4,530,000 representing the difference between reacquisition price and net carrying amount of borrowings extinguished prior to maturity (charge of $1,908,000 to financial
expenses — 1999).

Dividends received for the year ended 31 December 2000
amounted to $11,354,000 ($3,525,000 - 1999).

Total interest expense incurred for the year ended
31 December 2000 amounted to $1,560,606,000 ($1,425,535,000
1999)166 ANNUAL REPORT 2000

Oe

ASIAN DEVELOPMENT BANK-ORDINARY CAPITAL RESOURCES

NOTES TO FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
31 December 2000 and 1999

Other financial expenses consist of amortization of borrowings’ issuance costs and other expenses of $16,139,000
($19,775,000 - 1999).

Administrative expenses (other than those pertaining directly to ordinary operations and special operations) for the
year ended 31 December 2000 were apportioned between
Ordinary Capital Resources and the Asian Development Fund
according to the number of loans and equity investments
approved during the year. Of the total administrative expenses of $203,389,000 ($201,433,000 - 1999), $102,299,000
($95,528,000 - 1999) was accordingly charged to the Asian
Development Fund. The balance of administrative expenses
after allocation was offset by front-end fee from new loans for
the year ended 31 December 2000 of $8,531,000 (see Note E).

For the year ended 31 December 2000, the provision for
possible losses totaled $5,910,000 ($3,045,000 for private sector loans and $2,865,000 for equity investments). For the year
ended 31 December 1999, the provision for losses totaled
$24,834,000 ($14,047,000 for private sector loans and
$10,787,000 for equity investments).

NOTE L-OTHER ASSETS-MISCELLANEOUS

Included in miscellaneous assets are amounts receivable
from the following related funds as of 31 December 2000 and
1999:

2000 1999

Asian Development Fund

(Note K) $8,823,000 $42,476,000
Technical Assistance

Special Fund 502,000 91,000
Japan Special Fund 144,000 205,000
Asian Development Bank

Institute Special Fund 115,000 252,000

Total $9,584,000 $43,024,000

NOTE M-STAFF RETIREMENT PLAN AND
POSTRETIREMENT MEDICAL BENEFITS

Staff Retirement Plan

ADB has a contributory defined benefit Staff Retirement Plan
(the Plan). Every employee, as defined under the Plan, shall,
as a condition of service, become a participant from the first
day of service, provided that at such a date, the employee
has not reached the normal retirement age of 60. The Plan
applies also to members of the Board of Directors who elect
to join the Plan. Retirement benefits are based on length of
service and highest average remuneration during two years
of eligible service. The Plan assets are segregated and are
not included in the accompanying balance sheet. The costs
of administering the Plan are absorbed by ADB, except for
fees paid to the investment managers and related charges,
including custodian fees, which are borne by the Plan.

Participants are required to contribute 9 1/3% of their
salary to the Plan and may also make voluntary contributions.
ADB's contribution is determined at a rate sufficient to cover
that part of the costs of the Plan not covered by the participants’ contributions.

Postretirement Medical Benefits Plan

In 1993, ADB adopted a cost-sharing plan for retirees’ medical insurance premiums. Under the plan, ADB is obligated to
pay 75% of the Group Medical Insurance Plan premiums for
retirees, including retired members of the Board of Directors, and their eligible dependents who elected to participate. The cost-sharing plan is currently unfunded.

Generally accepted accounting principles require an
actuarially determined assessment of the periodic cost of
postretirement medical benefits.Financial Statements 167

eee recesses eeeeeeceecce eee ese seer eeeeeeeeeE®

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

OCR-8
CONTINUED
The following table sets forth the pension and postretirement benefits at 31 December 2000 and 1999:
Pension Benefits Postretirement Medical Benefits
2000 1999 2000 1999
Change in benefit obligation:
Benefit obligation at beginning of year $530,866,000 $ 505,507,000 $ 56,791,000 $57,130,000
Service cost 17,968,000 19,978,000 1,874,000 1,754,000
Interest cost 42,354,000 34,092,000 4,510,000 3,802,000
Participants’ contributions 21,812,000 23,260,000 - Amendments - 64,000 (4,082,000) Actuarial (gain) loss (12,919,000) (28,555,000) 3,167,000 (4,700,000)
Benefits paid (24,067,000) (23,480,000) (1,029,000) (1,195,000)
Benefit obligation at end of year $576,014,000 $ 530,866,000 $ 61,231,000 $ 56,791,000
Change in plan assets:
Fair value of plan assets at beginning of year $754,458,000 $ 634,314,000 $ - $ Actual return on plan assets (32,545,000) 108,047,000 - =
Employer's contribution 10,164,000 12,317,000 1,029,000 1,195,000
Plan participants’ contributions 21,812,000 23,260,000 - Benefits paid (24,067,000) (23,480,000) (1,029,000) (1,195,000)
Fair value of plan assets at end of year 729,822,000 754,458,000 - $ Funded status 153,808,000 223,592,000 (61,231,000) $ (56,791,000)
Unrecognized actuarial (gain) (146,392,000) (224,303,000) (272,000) (3,439,000)
Unrecognized prior service cost 2,775,000 3,821,000 (4,082,000) =
Unrecognized transition obligation (3,322,000) (4,427,000) 10,115,000 12,524,000
Net amount recognized 6,869,000 (1,317,000) (55,470,000) $(47,706,000)
Amounts recognized in the
balance sheet consist of:
Prepaid benefit cost 7,144,000 - - $ Accrued benefit liability (286,000) (1,455,000) (55,470,000) (47,706,000)
Intangible asset - 64,000 = =
Accumulated other comprehensive income 11,000 74,000 - Net amount recognized 6,869,000 (1,317,000) (55,470,000) $(47,706,000)
Weighted-average assumptions as of 31 December
Discount rate 7.50% 7.15% 7.50% 7.75%
Expected return on plan assets 8.00% 8.00% N/A N/A

Rate of compensation increase varies with age
and averages 6.50% 6.75% 6.50% 6.75%168 ANNUAL REPORT 2000

Ce ee

ASIAN DEVELOPMENT BANK-ORDINARY CAPITAL RESOURCES

NOTES TO FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
31 December 2000 and 1999

For measurement purposes, a 9.75% annual rate of increase in the per capita cost of covered health care benefits
was assumed for the valuation as at 31 December 2000. The

rate was assumed to decrease gradually to 4.75% for 2009 and
remain at that level thereafter.

 

 

Pension Benefits Postretirement Medical Benefits
2000 1999 2000 1999
Components of net periodic benefit cost:

Service cost $ 17,968,000 $ 19,978,000 $1,874,000 $1,754,000
Interest cost 42,354,000 34,092,000 4,510,000 3,802,000
Expected return on plan assets (52,559,000) (44,542,000) - Amortization of prior service cost 1,046,000 982,000 = =
Amortization of transition obligation (1,105,000) (1,105,000) 2,409,000 2,409,000
Recognized actuarial (gain) loss (5,726,000) 34,000 - 
Net periodic benefit cost $ 1,978,000 $ 9,439,000 $8,793,000 $7,965,000

 

 

The projected benefit obligation, accumulated benefit obligation, and fair value of plan assets for the pension plan with
accumulated benefit obligations in excess of plan assets were
$592,000,000, $589,000,000, and $303,000,000, respectively
as of 31 December 2000 and $574,000,000, $572,000,000, and
$289,000,000, respectively, as of 31 December 1999.

A one-percentage-point change in assumed health care
trend rates would have the following effects:

1- Percentage- 1-Percentage
PointIncrease Point Decrease
Effect on total service
and interest cost
components $ 1,379,000 $(1,081,000)
Effect on postretirement
benefit obligation 11,314,000 (9,059,000)NOTE N-FAIR VALUE OF FINANCIAL INSTRUMENTS

Financial Statements 169

eee recesses eeeeeeceecce eee ese seer eeeeeeeeeE®

OCR-8

CONTINUED

The carrying amounts and estimated fair values of ADB’s significant financial instruments as of 31 December 2000 and 1999

are summarized as follows:

 

2000 1999
Carrying Estimated Carrying Estimated
Amount Fair Value Amount Fair Value
On-balance sheet
financial instruments:
ASSETS:
Due from banks $ 62,546,000 $ 62,546,000 $ 72,972,000 $ 72,972,000

Investments (Note D)
Loans outstanding (Note E)

7,533,008,000
28,155,116,000

Equity investments 203,497,000
Other assets
Nonnegotiable, noninterest-bearing
demand obligations 384,045,000

Currency swap receivables (Note H)
LIABILITIES:

5,942,697,000

Borrowings (Note H)
Other liabilities
Currency swap payables (Note H)

25,367,175,000

6,633,736,000

Notional/Contract

Amount

Off-balance sheet
financial instruments:

Borrowings (Note H)

Interest rate swaps $ 4,629,779,000

Guarantees (Note E) 341,588,000

Additional fair value information, including methods used
to estimate certain values, is included in the notes referenced
in the above table.

Fair value of a financial instrument is defined as the amount
at which the instrument could be exchanged in a current
transaction between willing parties, other than in a forced or
liquidation sale.

The fair value of financial instruments that are short-term
approximates their carrying amounts.

If available, quoted market values are used to determine
fair values. Financial instruments for which market quotations are not readily available are valued using methodologies
and assumptions which necessarily require the use of subjec
Gain (Loss)

$ 36,937,000

7,533,008,000
28,360,192,000
203,497,000

8,198,691,000
28,271,150,000
211,094,000

8,198,691,000
28,554,836,000
211,094,000

384,045,000
6,143,773,000

381,576,000
6,666,875,000

381,576,000
6,779,405,000

25,937,318,000 26,285,451,000 26,315,305,000

6,887,112,000 7,484,515,000 7,767 ,028,000
Unrealized

Gain (Loss)

Notional/Contract
Amount

Unrealized

$ 4,713,402,000 $ (75,534,000)
= 367,873,000 =

tive judgments. Accordingly, the actual value at which such
financial instruments could be exchanged in a current transaction or whether they are actually exchangeable is not
determinable.

NOTE O-OFF-BALANCE SHEET CREDIT RISK

ADB is a party to off-balance sheet financial instruments.
These financial instruments involve elements of credit risk
in excess of amounts reflected on the balance sheet. Credit
risk represents the maximum potential accounting loss due
to possible nonperformance by obligors and counterparties
under the terms of the contract.170 ANNUAL REPORT 2000

Oe

OCR-8

ASIAN DEVELOPMENT BANK-ORDINARY CAPITAL RESOURCES

NOTES TO FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
31 December 2000 and 1999

2000 1999
Credit risk at 31 December:

Currency swaps (Note H)
Interest rate swaps (Note H)
Guarantees (Note E)

$ 47,036,000 $ 97,323,000
50,892,000 18,110,000
195,239,000 167,442,000

NOTE P-SPECIAL AND TRUST FUNDS

ADB's operations include special operations, which are financed from special funds resources, consisting of the Asian
Development Fund, the Technical Assistance Special Fund,
Japan Special Fund, and the Asian Development Bank Institute Special Fund.

In addition, ADB, alone or jointly with donors, administers
on behalf of the donors, including members of ADB, their
agencies and other development institutions, projects/programs supplementing ADB's operations. Such projects/programs are funded with external funds administered by ADB
and with external funds not under ADB's administration. The
funds are restricted for specific uses including technical assistance to borrowers and technical assistance for regional
programs. The responsibilities of ADB under these arrangements range from project processing to project implementation including the facilitation of procurement of goods and
services.

Special funds and funds administered by ADB on behalf of
the donors are not included in the assets of Ordinary Capital
Resources. The breakdown of the total of such funds together
with the funds of the special operations as of 31 December
2000 and 1999 was as follows:

2000 1999

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Total Net No. of Total Net No. of
Assets Funds Assets Funds
Special Funds
Asian Development Fund $20,992,561,000 1 $22,086,878,000 1
Technical Assistance Special Fund 115,457,000 1 116,289,000 1
Japan Special Fund 326,977,000 1 218,318,000 1
Asian Development Bank
Institute Special Fund 7,614,000 1 15,115,000 1
Subtotal 21,442,609,000 4 22,436,600,000 4
Trust Funds
Funds administered by ADB 140,310,000 21 60,038,000 24
Funds not administered by ADB 8,234,000 12,503,000 1
Subtotal 148,544,000 22 72,541,000 25
Total $21,591,153,000 26

$22,509, 141,000 29

 

During the year ended 31 December 2000, a total of $655,000
($911,000 - 1999) was received as compensation for admin
istering projects/programs under Trust Funds. The amount
has been included in “Income from Other Sources.”Financial Statements 71

CO

REPORT OF INDEPENDENT AUDITORS
Asian Development Bank

In our opinion, the accompanying balance sheets and the related statements of
revenue and expenses, of cash flows, and of changes in unexpended balances and
capital present fairly, in all material respects, in terms of United States dollars, the
financial position of the Asian Development Bank-Asian Development Fund at 31
December 2000 and 1999, and the results of its operations, its cash flows and the
changes in its unexpended balances and capital for the years then ended, in
conformity with generally accepted accounting principles in the United States.
These financial statements are the responsibility of the management of the Asian
Development Bank; our responsibility is to express an opinion on these financial
statements based on our audits. We conducted our audits of these statements in
accordance with generally accepted auditing standards in the United States which
require that we plan and perform the audit to obtain reasonable assurance about
whether the financial statements are free of material misstatement. An audit includes examining, on a test basis, evidence supporting the amounts and disclosures
in the financial statements. An audit also includes assessing the accounting principles used and significant estimates made by management, as well as evaluating
the overall financial statement presentation. We believe that our audits provide a
reasonable basis for the opinion expressed above.

Our audits were conducted for the purpose of forming an opinion on the basic
financial statements taken as a whole. The accompanying summary statements of
loans as at 31 December 2000 and 1999, and of resources as at 31 December 2000
are presented for purposes of additional analyses and are not required parts of the
basic financial statements. Such information has been subjected to the auditing
procedures applied in the audits of the basic financial statements and in our
opinion, is fairly stated in all material respects in relation to the basic financial
statements taken as a whole.

Zuds wary hoaarCoopio LF

Boston, Massachusetts
7 March 2001172 ANNUAL REPORT 2000

Oe Oe

ADF-1
ASIAN DEVELOPMENT BANK-ASIAN DEVELOPMENT FUND
BALANCE SHEET
31 December 2000 and 1999
Expressed in Thousands of United States Dollars (Note B)
2000 1999
ASSETS
DUE FROM BANKS (Note B) $ 7,591 $ 30,151
INVESTMENTS (Notes B and C)
Government and government-guaranteed obligations $ 590,283 $ 297,644
Time deposits 1,072,066 1,226,719
Other securities 599,069 2,261,418 562,621 2,086,984
LOANS OUTSTANDING (ADF-5) (Notes B and D) 15,531,500 15,960,241
Less—allowance for possible losses 6,667 15,524,833 6,929 15,953,312
ACCRUED REVENUE
On investments 27,826 18,188
On loans 39,536 67,362 37,062 55,250
DUE FROM CONTRIBUTORS (Notes B and E) 3,154,538 4,066,554
OTHER ASSETS 1,345 182
TOTAL $21,017,087 $22,192,433
LIABILITIES, UNEXPENDED BALANCES, AND CAPITAL
PAYABLE TO ORDINARY CAPITAL RESOURCES $ 8,823 $ 42,476
ADVANCE PAYMENTS ON CONTRIBUTIONS (ADF-6) 2,704 29,601
OTHER LIABILITIES
Investment related payables $ 12,429 $ 32,729
Others 570 12,999 749 33,478
UNEXPENDED BALANCES AND CAPITAL
Amounts available for loan commitments (ADF-6)
Contributed Resources (Note B) 19,319,810 20,452,212
Set-Aside Resources (Note G) 62,031 65,386
Transfers from Ordinary Capital Resources and
Technical Assistance Special Fund (Note A) 232,670 232,855
19,614,511 20,750,453
Accumulated surplus (ADF-4) 1,463,144 1,299,577
Accumulated other comprehensive income (ADF-4) (Notes B and H) (85,094) 20,992,561 36,848 22,086,878
TOTAL $21,017,087 $22,192,433

See notes to financial statements (ADF-7).Financial Statements 173

eee recesses eeeeeeceecee eee ese ese eee e eee eeeE®

 

 

 

 

 

 

ADF-2
ASIAN DEVELOPMENT BANK-ASIAN DEVELOPMENT FUND
STATEMENT OF REVENUE AND EXPENSES
For the Years Ended 31 December 2000 and 1999
Expressed in Thousands of United States Dollars (Note B)
2000 1999
REVENUE
From loans (Notes B and D) $150,327 $141,187
From investments (Notes B and C)
Interest $115,148 $76,754
Net gain on sales 1 115,149 193 76,947
From other sources—net 378 $265,854 296 $218,430
EXPENSES
Administrative expenses (Note F) 102,308 95,536
Provision for possible losses (written back)
charged (Notes B and D) (21) 102,287 469 96,005
EXCESS OF REVENUE OVER EXPENSES—
NET INCOME $163,567 $122,425

 

See notes to financial statements (ADF-7).174 ANNUAL REPORT 2000

Ce

ADF-3
ASIAN DEVELOPMENT BANK-ASIAN DEVELOPMENT FUND
STATEMENT OF CASH FLOWS
For the Years Ended 31 December 2000 and 1999
Expressed in Thousands of United States Dollars (Note B)
2000 1999

CASH FLOWS FROM OPERATING ACTIVITIES

Interest charges on loans received $ 119,869 $ 105,748

Interest on investments received 92,267 66,397

Cash received from other sources 479 307

Administrative expenses paid (135,962) (55,893)
Net Cash Provided by Operating Activities 76,653 116,559
CASH FLOWS FROM INVESTING ACTIVITIES

Net cash withdrawn from (invested in) time deposits,

other obligations of banks and corporate bonds 8,215 (492,118)

Sales of investment securities 1,209,982 504,171

Maturities of investment securities 6,975,952 11,583,696

Purchases of investment securities (8,510,592) (12,240,970)

Principal collected on loans 208,442 177,296

Loans disbursed (1,109,423) (1,085,246)
Net Cash Used in Investing Activities (1,217,424) (1,553,171)
CASH FLOWS FROM FINANCING ACTIVITIES

Contributions received and encashed! 1,121,856 1,462,481
Net Cash Provided by Financing Activities 1,121,856 1,462,481
Effect of Exchange Rate Changes on Due from Banks (3,645) (3,611)
Net (Decrease) Increase in Due from Banks (22,560) 22,258
Due from Banks at Beginning of Period 30,151 7,893
Due from Banks at End of Period $ 7,591 $ 30,151

RECONCILIATION OF EXCESS OF REVENUE OVER EXPENSES—NET
INCOME TO NET CASH PROVIDED BY OPERATING ACTIVITIES:
Excess of revenue over expenses—net income (ADF-2) $ 163,567 $ 122,425
Adjustments to reconcile excess of revenue over
expenses—net income to net cash provided by operating activities:

Change in accrued revenue on investments and loans (15,431) (5,870)
Change in accrued/prepaid administrative expenses (33,653) 39,643
Capitalized charges on loans (24,666) (27,412)
Changes in receivables/payables 101 (9,609)
Provision for possible losses (written back) charged (21) 469
Amortization of discounts/premiums (13,243) (2,935)
Net gain on sales of securities (1) (193)
Others—net - 41
Net Cash Provided by Operating Activities $ 76,653 $ 116,559

1 In addition, nonnegotiable, noninterest-bearing demand promissory notes amounting to $495,274 ($781,718 — 1999) were received from contributing
members.

See notes to financial statements (ADF-7).Financial Statements 75

eee recesses eeeeeeceecee eee ese ese eee e eee eeeE®

ADF-4
ASIAN DEVELOPMENT BANK-ASIAN DEVELOPMENT FUND
STATEMENT OF CHANGES IN UNEXPENDED BALANCES AND CAPITAL
For the Years Ended 31 December 2000 and 1999
Expressed in Thousands of United States Dollars (Note B)
Accumulated
Transfers Other
Contributed Set-Aside from OCR Accumulated Comprehensive
Resources Resources & TASF Surplus Income Total
Balance—
1 January 1999 $19,020,422 $67,036 $233,256 $1,177,152 $ 37,532 $20,535,398

Comprehensive income

for the year 1999 (Note H) 122,425 (684) 121,741
Change in amount of contributed

resources available for

 

loan commitments 1,431,790 1,431,790
Change in SDR value of
set-aside resources (1,650) (1,650)
Change in value of transfers from
Technical Assistance Special Fund (401) (401)
Balance—
31 December 1999 $20,452,212 $65,386 $232,855 $1,299,577 $ 36,848 $22,086,878

Comprehensive income

for the year 2000 (Note H) 163,567 (121,942) 41,625
Change in amount of contributed

resources available for

loan commitments (1,132,402) (1,132,402)
Change in SDR value of
set-aside resources (3/355) (3,355)
Change in value of transfers from
Technical Assistance Special Fund (185) (185)
Balance—
31 December 2000 $19,319,810 $62,031 $232,670 $1,463,144 $ (85,094) $20,992,561

 

Accumulated Other Comprehensive Income (Note H)
For the Years Ended 31 December 2000 and 1999
Expressed in Thousands of United States Dollars (Note B)

 

 

Accumulated Translation Unrealized Investment Accumulated Other
Adjustments Holding Gains (Losses) Comprehensive Income

2000 1999 2000 1999) 2000 1999
Balance, 1 January $ 39,830 $ 35,880 $(2,982) $ 1,652 $ 36,848 $ 37,532
Other comprehensive income for the year (126,890) 3,950 4,948 (4,634) (121,942) (684)
Balance, 31 December $ (87,060) $39,830 $ 1,966 $(2,982) $ (85,094) $36,848

 

 

 

See notes to financial statements (ADF-7).176 ANNUAL REPORT 2000

Oe

ASIAN DEVELOPMENT BANK-ASIAN DEVELOPMENT FUND
SUMMARY STATEMENT OF LOANS

31 December 2000 and 1999

Expressed in Thousands of United States Dollars (Note B)

 

 

 

Undisbursed Loans
Loans Balances of Not Yet Total Percent of
Borrower/Guarantor' Outstanding Effective Loans? Effective? Loans Total Loans

Afghanistan $ 30,560 $ - $ - $ 30,560 0.14
Bangladesh 4,193,804 803,072 205,036 5,201,912 24.54
Bhutan 50,186 33,809 - 83,995 0.40
Cambodia 191,136 204,657 53,985 449,778 Zale
Cook Islands 20,167 1,089 - 21,256 0.10
Indonesia 644,763 111,772 166,818 923,353 4.35
Kazakhstan 44,986 9,480 - 54,466 0.26
Kiribati 3,997 8,421 - 12,418 0.06
Kyrgyz Republic 252,665 151,042 30,089 433,796 2.05
Lao PDR 574,330 177,103 60,142 811,575 3.83
Maldives 31,618 18,371 - 49,989 0.23
Marshall Islands 39,292 6,779 6,874 52,945 0.25
Micronesia, Fed. States of 26,863 6,106 8,077 41,046 0.19
Mongolia 305,071 91,208 41,524 437,803 2.06
Myanmar 460,656 - - 460,656 2h
Nepal 1,100,288 143,986 221,947 1,466,221 6.92
Pakistan 3,900,619 842,979 208,377 4,951,975 23.36
Papua New Guinea 269,067 30,634 25,201 324,902 1.53
Philippines 841,504 129,046 - 970,550 4.58
Samoa 70,716 9,966 3,514 84,196 0.40
Solomon Islands 46,331 231 10,125 56,687 0.27
Sri Lanka 1533/7911 473,514 201,281 2,208,586 10.42
Tajikistan 21,968 20,531 54,995 97,494 0.46
Thailand b/j953 = = 57,553 0.27
Tonga Bo Diz 522 - 36,034 EAL?
Tuvalu 2,800 1223 - 4,023 0.02
Uzbekistan 1,734 17,123 - 18,857 0.09
Vanuatu 45,616 3,391 - 49,007 0.23
Viet Nam 733,907 883,184 190,281 1,807,372 8.53

BALANCE - 31 December 2000 15,531,500 4,179,239 1,488,266 21,199,005 100.00

Allowance for possible losses (6,667) (6,667)

 

NET BALANCE - 31 December 2000 $15,524,833 $4,179,239 $1,488,266 $21,192,338

 

 

BALANCE — 31 December 1999 $15,960,241 $4,662,464 $ 910,378 $21,533,083

Allowance for possible losses (6,929) (6,929)

 

NET BALANCE - 31 December 1999 = $15,953,312 $4,662,464 $ 910,378 $21,526,154

 

 

1 Loans other than those made directly to a member or to its central bank have been guaranteed by the member with the exception of loans to the private
sector amounting to $9,839 ($10,765 — 1999).

2 Loans negotiated before 1 January 1983 were denominated in current United States dollars. Loans negotiated after that date are denominated in Special
Drawing Rights (SDR) for the purpose of commitment. The undisbursed portions of such SDR loans are translated into United States dollars at the applicable
exchange rates as of the end of a reporting period. Of the undisbursed balances, ADB has entered into irrevocable commitments to disburse various amounts
totaling $88,474 ($105,523 — 1999).

See notes to financial statements (ADF-7).Financial Statements 77

eee recesses eeeeeeceecee eee ese ese eee e eee eeeE®

 

 

 

ADF-5
MATURITY OF EFFECTIVE LOANS
Twelve Months Five Years
Ending 31 December Amount Ending 31 December Amount

2001 $366,816 2010 2,924,319

2002 327,938 2015 3722111

2003 357,197 2020 4,061,218

2004 400,354 2025 3,527,924

2005 434,000 2030 2,250,893

2035 1,132,185

2038 205,784

Total $19,710,739

SUMMARY OF CURRENCIES RECEIVABLE ON LOANS OUTSTANDING

Currency 2000 1999 Currency 2000 1999
Australian dollar $ 383,838 $ 421,550 Korean won 66 73
Austrian schilling 626 677 New Zealand dollar 21,778 25,962
Belgian franc 36 39 Norwegian krone 40,984 49,882
Canadian dollar 790,524 761,906 Pound sterling 263,517 297,710
Danish krone 83,638 82,942 Swedish krona 89,779 80,481
Euro 2,299,201 2,344,711 Swiss franc 176,349 175,784
Japanese yen 9,567,705 9,864,985 United States dollar 1,813,459 1,853,539

Totals $15,531,500 $15,960,241178 ANNUAL REPORT 2000

Oe

 

 

 

ADF-6
ASIAN DEVELOPMENT BANK-ASIAN DEVELOPMENT FUND
STATEMENT OF RESOURCES
31 December 2000
Expressed in Thousands of United States Dollars (Note B)
Effective Effective ; Amounts
Amounts Amounts Committed Not Yet Amounts
Committed At Exchange At 31 Dec. 2000 Available Available
During Rates Per Exchange For Loan For Loan Amounts Amounts
2000 Resolutions Rates Commitments Commitments Received Receivable
CONTRIBUTED RESOURCES
Australia $ - $ 1,139,532 $ 747,865 $ 32,350 $ 715,515 $ 715,515 $ Austria - 144,706 135,867 4,107 131,760 131,760 Belgium = 138,556 119,388 - 119,388 119,388 Canada + 1,280,180 1,044,850 - 1,044,850 1,044,850 Denmark - 154,229 129,737 - 129,737 129,737 Finland = 100,391 71,685 - 71,685 71,685 France = 831,755 679,202 25,036 654,166 654,166 =
Germany - 1,132,547 1,065,694 30,982 1,034,712 1,034,712 Hong Kong, China = 20,270 20,270 - 20,270 20,270 Indonesia - 14,960 14,960 - 14,960 14,960 Italy = 707,302 429,843 20,446 409,397 409,397 Japan = 6,441,291 10,459,353 = 10,459,353 10,459,353 =
Korea, Rep. of - 77,170 56,831 - 56,831 56,831 Malaysia - 10,000 6,709 1,677 5,032 5,032 Nauru = 1,933 17933 = 1,933 1,433 500
Netherlands - 413,497 383,286 - 383,286 383,286 New Zealand = 70,473 44,217 = 44,217 44,217 =
Norway = 138,458 97,350 = 97,350 97,350 Spain 85 103,744 74,400 - 74,400 74,400 Sweden = 249,844 158,465 - 158,465 158,465 Switzerland = 214,910 224,862 - 224,862 224,862 =
Taipei,China - 31,080 28,936 - 28,936 28,936 Thailand = 4,000 2,391 - 2,391 273941 Turkey - 100,386 100,386 - 100,386 100,386 United Kingdom = 725,477 611,017 = 611,017 611,017 >
United States - 2,924,928 2,924,928 200,017 2,724,911 2,724,911 =
Total 85 17,171,619 19,634,425 314,615 19,319,810 19,319,310! 500
SET-ASIDE RESOURCES
(Note G) - - 62,031 - 62,031 - TRANSFER FROM
ORDINARY CAPITAL
RESOURCES = = 230,000 - 230,000 - TRANSFERS FROM
TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE
SPECIAL FUND? - - 2,670 - 2,670 - TOTAL $85 $17,171,619 $19,929,126 $314,615 $19,614,511 $19,319,310 $500

1 Excludes $2,704 equivalent representing advance payments received but not yet available for loan commitments as of 31 December 2000.
2 Includes translation adjustments amounting to $802 as of 31 December 2000.

See notes to financial statements (ADF-7).Financial Statements 179

eee recesses eeeeeeceecee eee ese ese eee e eee eeeE®

ADF-7

ASIAN DEVELOPMENT BANK-ASIAN DEVELOPMENT FUND

NOTES TO FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
31 December 2000 and 1999

 

NOTE A-NATURE OF OPERATIONS

The Asian Development Fund (the Fund) was established on
28 June 1974 to more effectively carry out the special operations of the Asian Development Bank (ADB) by providing
resources on concessional terms which are made available
almost exclusively to the least developed borrowing countries.

The resources of the Fund have been subsequently augmented by six replenishments, the most recent of which became effective in September 1997 in a total amount equivalent to US$2,657,777,000 to cover the operational requirements for the four-year period from January 1997. In 1997,
unallocated net income of $230,000,000 held in the surplus
account of ADB's Ordinary Capital Resources was allocated to
the Fund to supplement donors’ contributions.

NOTE B-SUMMARY OF SIGNIFICANT
ACCOUNTING POLICIES

Functional Currencies and Reporting Currency

The currencies of contributing member countries are functional currencies. The reporting currency is the United States
dollar, and the financial statements are expressed in thousands of current United States dollars.

Translation of Currencies

Assets, liabilities, amounts available for loan commitments
and advance payments on contributions are translated from
their functional currencies to the reporting currency, generally at the applicable rates of exchange at the end of a
reporting period. Revenue and expense amounts are translated for each semimonthly period, generally at the applicable rates of exchange at the beginning of each period;
such practice approximates the application of average rates
in effect during the period. Translation adjustments relating
to set-aside resources (see Note G) are recorded as notional
amounts receivable from or payable to Ordinary Capital
Resources. Other translation adjustments are charged or
credited to “Accumulated translation adjustments” and reported in ‘UNEXPENDED BALANCES AND CAPITAL’ as part
of “Accumulated other comprehensive income.” Exchange
gains or losses on currency transactions among functional
currencies are included in revenue.

Investments

All investment securities held by the Fund are considered by
Management to be available for sale and are reported at
estimated fair value, with unrealized gains and losses excluded from revenue and reported in “UNEXPENDED BALANCES AND CAPITAL” as part of “Accumulated other
comprehensive income.” Estimated fair value generally represents market value. Cost or amortized cost is used to
approximate fair value for certain short-term investments
not traded in the market (time deposits, etc.). Realized gains
and losses are included in revenue from investments and are
measured by the difference between amortized cost and the
net proceeds of sales.

Loans

It is the policy of the Fund to place in nonaccrual status loans
made to eligible developing member countries if the principal or interest with respect to any such loans are overdue by
six months. Interest on nonaccruing loans are included in
revenue only to the extent that payments have actually been
received by the Fund. ADB follows a policy of not taking part
in debt rescheduling agreements with respect to public sector loans. In the case of private sector loans, ADB may agree
to debt rescheduling only after alternative courses of action
have been exhausted.

ADB determines that a loan is impaired and, therefore,
subject to provisioning when principal or interest are in arrears for one year for public sector loans made to or guaranteed by a member country (unless there is clear and convincing evidence warranting the deferment or acceleration of
such provisioning) and six months for private sector loans. If
the present value of expected future cash flows discounted at
the loan’s effective interest rate is less than the carrying value
of the loan, a valuation allowance is established with a corresponding charge to provision for possible losses.

ADB's periodic evaluation of the adequacy of the allowance for possible losses is based on its past loan loss experience, known and inherent risks in existing loans and adverse
situations that may affect a borrower's ability to repay.

Contributed Resources

Contributions by member countries are included in the financial statements as amounts committed from the date180 ANNUAL REPORT 2000

Ce ee

ASIAN DEVELOPMENT BANK-ASIAN DEVELOPMENT FUND

NOTES TO FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
31 December 2000 and 1999

 

Instruments of Contribution are deposited and related formalities are completed.

Contributions are generally paid or to be paid in the currency of the contributor either in cash or notes.

Accounting Estimates

The preparation of financial statements in conformity with
generally accepted accounting principles requires Management to make estimates and assumptions that affect the
reported amounts of assets and liabilities as at the end of the
year and the reported amounts of income and expenses
during the year. The actual results could differ from those
estimates.

Statement of Cash Flows

For the purposes of the statement of cash flows, the Fund
considers that its cash and cash equivalents are limited to
"DUE FROM BANKS.”

Reclassification

Certain 1999 amounts have been restated to conform with
the 2000 presentation.

NOTE C-NVESTMENTS
The currency compositions of the investment portfolio

as of 31 December 2000 and 1999 expressed in United States
dollars were as follows:

 

Currency 2000 1999
Australian dollar $ 267,308,000 $ 251,443,000
Canadian dollar 191,797,000 173,470,000
Danish krone 30,726,000 29,447,000
Euro 454,888,000 401,454,000
Japanese yen 65,893,000 233,903,000
Norwegian krone 65,464,000 54,580,000
Pound sterling 367,517,000 318,618,000
Swedish krone 35,767,000 41,337,000
United States dollar 735,625,000 551,096,000
Others 46,433,000 31,636,000

Total $2,261,418,000

$2,086,984,000

The estimated fair value and amortized cost of the investments by contractual maturity at 31 December 2000 were as
follows:

Estimated Amortized
Fair Value Cost
$1,640,563,000

Due in one year or less $1,641,066,000

Due after one year

through five years 603,915,000 602,693,000
Due after five years
through ten years 16,437,000 16,196,000

Total $2,261,418,000 $2,259,452,000

Additional information relating to investments in government and government-guaranteed obligations and other securities is as follows:

2000 1999

As of 31 December

Amortized cost $1,187,386,000 $863,247 ,000
Estimated fair value 1,189,352,000 860,265,000
Gross unrealized gains 2,088,000 Gross unrealized losses 122,000 2,982,000
For the years ended

31 December
Change in net unrealized

gains (losses) 4,948,000 (4,634,000)
Proceeds from sales 1,209,982,000 504,171,000
Gross gains 13,000 245,000
Gross losses 12,000 52,000

The annualized rate of return on the average investments
held during the year, based on the portfolio held at the beginning and end of each month, excluding unrealized gains and
losses, was 4.96% (4.03% - 1999). If unrealized gains and
losses were included, the annualized rate of return would
have been 5.17% (3.79% - 1999).

Investments are governed by the Investment Authority
approved by the Board of Directors. The main investment
management objective is to maintain security and liquidity.
Subject to these parameters, ADB seeks the highest possible
return on the Fund’s investments. Included in other securities
as of 31 December 2000 are corporate bonds and other obligations of banks amounting to $229,400,000 (nil -1999) and
$369,669,000 ($562,621,000 - 1999), respectively.Financial Statements 181

eee reeeseerseeeceeceecee eee ese reese eee nese eeE®

ADF-7

CONTINUED

 

In 1999, the Board of Directors approved a new Investment
Authority. The new Investment Authority allows investment
in higher-yielding investment instruments, such as high-quality corporate bonds, mortgage-backed securities, and assetbacked securities.

NOTE D-EOANS AND LOAN LOSS PROVISION
Loans

On 14 December 1998, the Board of Directors approved an
amendment to ADF loan terms, as follows: (i) for loans to
finance specific projects, 32-year maturity including an 8year grace period; (ii) program loans to support sector development, 24-year maturity including an 8-year grace period;
and (iii) all new loans bear a 1% interest charge during the
grace period, and 1.5% during the amortization period, with
equal amortization. The new ADF lending terms took effect
on | January 1999 and apply only to new loans for which
formal loan negotiations were completed on or after 1 January 1999. Prior to 1 January 1999, loans of the Fund were
extended to eligible developing member countries, which
bore a service charge of 1% and required repayment over
periods ranging from 35 to 40 years. The Fund requires
borrowers to absorb exchange risks attributable to fluctuations in the value of the currencies disbursed.

The fair value of loans are determined using an entry value
method. Under this method, fair value is determined based on
the terms at which a similar loan would currently be made by
ADB to a similar borrower. For such loans, fair value approximates the carrying amount. The estimated fair value of loans
is not affected by credit risks because the amount of any such
adjustment is not considered to have a material effect based
on ADB's experience with its borrowers.

Undisbursed loan commitments and an analysis of loans
by countries as of 31 December 2000 are shown in ADF-5.

The principal amount outstanding of public sector loans in
nonaccrual status as of 31 December 2000 was $491,216,000
($535,727,000 - 1999) of which $55,693,000 ($40,152,000 1999) was overdue. Loans in nonaccrual status resulted in
$5,162,000 ($5,045,000 - 1999) not being recognized as income from loans for the year ended 31 December 2000. The
accumulated interest on these loans that was not recognized
as income as of 31 December 2000 would have totaled
$18,170,000 ($13,008,000 - 1999). The loans in nonaccrual
status as of 31 December 2000 were four loans made to

Afghanistan and 28 loans to Myanmar. (Four loans to Afghanistan and 28 loans to Myanmar - 1999).

One private sector loan was in nonaccrual status as of 31
December 2000 (nil -1999). The principal outstanding at that
date was $6,015,000 (nil - 1999). Loan in nonaccrual status
resulted in $122,000 (nil - 1999) not being recognized in
income from private sector loans for the year ended 31 December 2000.

Private sector loans outstanding as of 31 December 2000
were $7,115,000 ($7,778,000 - 1999), net of accumulated provision for possible loan losses as of 31 December 2000 of
$2,724,000 ($2,986,000 - 1999), and there were no undisbursed loan commitments (nil - 1999).

Loan Loss Provision

ADB makes provision for possible losses on loans to the
private sector, based on an evaluation by ADB of the
collectibility of loans outstanding.

ADB makes provision for possible losses on loans made to
the public sector when principal or interest is in arrears for a
year or more unless there is clear and convincing evidence
warranting the deferment or acceleration of such provisioning.
The amount of any loss provision is determined by comparing
the carrying value of the loan to the present value of expected
cash inflows discounted at the loan’s effective interest rate.

During the 2000 financial year, no loan loss provisions (nil
—1999) were made against public sector loans while $21,000
(charges of $469,000 - 1999) has been written back against
private sector loans.

Information pertaining to loans which are subject to loan
loss provisions as at 31 December 2000 and 1999 is as follows:

2000 1999

Loans without
loss provisions
Loans subject to

$15,492,067,000 $15,917,379,000

loss provisions 39,433,000 42,862,000

Total $15,531,500,000 $15,960,241,000
Average amount of loans

subject to loss provisions $ 41,189,000 $ 39,873,000
Related interest charges

on such loans $ 442,000 $ 427,000
Cash received on related

interest charges on

such loans $ 29,000 $ 63,000182 ANNUAL REPORT 2000

Ce

ASIAN DEVELOPMENT BANK-ASIAN DEVELOPMENT FUND

NOTES TO FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
31 December 2000 and 1999

 

The changes in the allowance for possible loan losses during
2000 and 1999 were as follows:

2000 1999
Balance -1 January $6,929,000 $6,267,000
Provision (written back)
charged during the year (21,000) 469,000
Translation adjustments (241,000) 193,000
Balance -31 December $6,667,000 $6,929,000
Made up of:
Against public sector
loans
Afghanistan $3,943,000 $3,943,000
Against private sector
loans 2,724,000 2,986,000

Total $6,667,000 $6,929,000

NOTE E-NOTES OF CONTRIBUTORS

Notes of contributors are nonnegotiable, noninterest-bearing and, subject to certain restrictions imposed by applicable
Board of Governors’ resolutions encashable by ADB at par
upon demand.

ADB currently expects that the notes outstanding at 31
December 2000 will be encashed in varying amounts over the
seven-year period ending 31 December 2007.

The fair value of notes of contributors are determined
using an entry value method whereby fair value is determined, based on the terms at which notes are currently being
accepted from contributors. On this basis, the fair value of
outstanding notes of contributors approximates their carrying
amount.

NOTE F— ADMINISTRATIVE EXPENSES AND
ADMINISTRATION CHARGE

Administrative expenses include an administration charge
from Ordinary Capital Resources amounting to $102,299,000
($95,528,000 - 1999). The charge represents an apportionment of all administrative expenses of ADB (other than
those pertaining directly to ordinary operations and special
operations), based on the number of loans and equity investments approved during the year.

NOTE G-SET-ASIDE RESOURCES

Pursuant to the provisions of Article 19, paragraph 1 (i) of the
Articles of Agreement Establishing the Asian Development
Bank (the Charter), the Board of Governors has authorized
the setting aside of 10% of the unimpaired “paid-in” capital
paid by member countries pursuant to Article 6, paragraph
2(a) of the Charter and of the convertible currency portion
paid by member countries pursuant to Article 6, paragraph
2(b) of the Charter as of 28 April 1973, to be used as a part
of the Special Funds of ADB. The capital so set aside was
allocated and transferred from the Ordinary Capital Resources
to the Fund as Set-Aside Resources.

The capital stock of ADB is defined in Article 4, paragraph
1 of the Charter, ‘in terms of United States dollars of the
weight and fineness in effect on 31 January 1966” (the 1966
dollar). Therefore, Set-Aside Resources had historically been
translated into the current United States dollar (ADB’s unit of
account), on the basis of its par value in terms of gold. From
1973 until 31 March 1978, the rate arrived at on this basis was
$1.20635 per 1966 dollar. Since 1 April 1978, at which time the
Second Amendment to the Articles of Agreement of the International Monetary Fund (IMF) came into effect, currencies no
longer had par values in terms of gold. Pending ADB's selection of the appropriate successor to the 1966 dollar, the SetAside Resources have been valued for purposes of the accompanying financial statements in terms of the Special Drawing
Right (SDR), at the value in current United States dollars as
computed by the IMF. As of 31 December 2000, the value of
the SDR in terms of the current United States dollar was
$1.30291 ($1.37338 - 1999). On this basis, Set-Aside Resources
amounted to $62,031,000 ($65,386,000 - 1999). If the capital
stock of ADB as of 31 December 2000 had been valued in
terms of $12,063.50 per share, Set-Aside Resources would
have been $57,434,000.

NOTE H-COMPREHENSIVE INCOME AND
ACCUMULATED OTHER COMPREHENSIVE
INCOME

Comprehensive income has two major components: net income and other comprehensive income. Other comprehensive income include such items as unrealized gains and
losses on available-for-sale securities and foreign currency
translation adjustments.Financial Statements 183

CO

ADF-7

 

NOTE I-FAIR VALUE OF FINANCIAL INSTRUMENTS

Fair value of a financial instrument is defined as the amount
at which the instrument could be exchanged in a current
transaction between willing parties, other than in a forced or
liquidation sale.

The fair value of financial instruments that are short-term
approximates their carrying amounts.

If available, quoted market values are used to determine
fair values. Financial instruments for which market quota
tions are not readily available are valued using methodologies
and assumptions which necessarily require the use of subjective judgments. Accordingly, the actual value at which such
financial instruments could be exchanged in a current transaction, or whether they are actually exchangeable is not
determinable.

The Fund's balance sheet carrying amounts are considered
to approximate fair values for all significant financial instruments. See Notes B, C, D, and E for discussions with respect
to investments, loans, and notes of contributors, respectively.184 ANNUAL REPORT 2000

Oe OO

REPORT OF INDEPENDENT AUDITORS
Asian Development Bank

In our opinion, the accompanying statements of financial position and the related
statements of activities and changes in net assets and of cash flows present fairly,
in all material respects, in terms of United States dollars, the financial position of
the Asian Development Bank-Fechnical Assistance Special Fund at 31 December
2000 and 1999, and the results of its activities and changes in net assets and its cash
flows for the years then ended, in conformity with generally accepted accounting
principles in the United States. These financial statements are the responsibility of
the management of the Asian Development Bank; our responsibility is to express an
opinion on these financial statements based on our audits. We conducted our audits
of these statements in accordance with generally accepted auditing standards in the
United States which require that we plan and perform the audit to obtain reasonable
assurance about whether the financial statements are free of material misstatement. An audit includes examining, on a test basis, evidence supporting the amounts
and disclosures in the financial statements. An audit also includes assessing the
accounting principles used and significant estimates made by management, as well
as evaluating the overall financial statement presentation. We believe that our
audits provide a reasonable basis for the opinion expressed above.

Our audits were conducted for the purpose of forming an opinion on the basic
financial statements taken as a whole. The accompanying statement of resources
as at 31 December 2000 and summary statement of technical assistance approved
and effective for the year ended 31 December 2000 are presented for purposes of
additional analyses and are not required parts of the basic financial statements.
Such information has been subjected to the auditing procedures applied in the
audits of the basic financial statements and in our opinion, is fairly stated in all
material respects in relation to the basic financial statements taken as a whole.

Zire uty houaysepia LL

Boston, Massachusetts
7 March 2001Financial Statements 185

CO

 

TASF-1
ASIAN DEVELOPMENT BANK-FECHNICAL ASSISTANCE SPECIAL FUND
STATEMENT OF FINANCIAL POSITION
31 December 2000 and 1999
Expressed in Thousands of United States Dollars (Note B)
2000 1999

ASSETS
DUE FROM BANKS (Note B) $ 1,156 $ 3,672
INVESTMENTS (Notes B and C)

Government and government-guaranteed obligations $ 26,095 $ 50,346

Time deposits 159,220 147,977

Other obligations of banks 53,454 238,769 17,836 216,159
ACCRUED REVENUE 3,356 2,138
OTHER ASSETS 8,457 8,095

TOTAL $251,738 $230,064

LIABILITIES AND UNCOMMITTED BALANCES
PAYABLE TO ORDINARY CAPITAL RESOURCES $ 502 $ 91
ACCOUNTS PAYABLE AND OTHER LIABILITIES 3 3
UNDISBURSED COMMITMENTS (Notes B and E) 135,776 113,681
UNCOMMITTED BALANCES (TASF-2 and TASF-4) (Note B)

Unrestricted net assets 115,457 116,289

TOTAL $251,738 $230,064

See notes to financial statements (TASF-6).186 ANNUAL REPORT 2000

Oe

 

 

 

 

TASF-2
ASIAN DEVELOPMENT BANK-FECHNICAL ASSISTANCE SPECIAL FUND
STATEMENT OF ACTIVITIES AND CHANGES IN NET ASSETS
For the Years Ended 31 December 2000 and 1999
Expressed in Thousands of United States Dollars (Note B)
2000 1999
CHANGES IN UNRESTRICTED NET ASSETS
CONTRIBUTIONS (TASF-4) (Notes B and D) $ 80,103 $ 80,070
REVENUE
From investments (Notes B and C)
Interest $9,624 $7,806
Unrealized investment gains (losses) 112) (699)
9,736 7,107
From other sources—net (Note E) 388 10,124 322 7,429
Total 90,227 87,499
EXPENSES
Technical assistance (TASF-5) (Notes B and E) 80,456 63,059
Financial expenses 4 2
Total 80,460 63,061
CONTRIBUTIONS AND REVENUE IN EXCESS OF EXPENSES 9,767 24,438
EXCHANGE LOSSES—net (Note B) (10,599) (5,336)
(DECREASE) INCREASE IN NET ASSETS (832) 19,102
NET ASSETS AT BEGINNING OF YEAR 116,289 97,187
NET ASSETS AT END OF YEAR $115,457 $116,289

See notes to financial statements (TASF-6).Financial Statements 187

CO

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

TASF-3
ASIAN DEVELOPMENT BANK-FECHNICAL ASSISTANCE SPECIAL FUND
STATEMENT OF CASH FLOWS
For the Years Ended 31 December 2000 and 1999
Expressed in Thousands of United States Dollars (Note B)
2000 1999
CASH FLOWS FROM OPERATING ACTIVITIES
Contributions received $80,173 $80,000
Interest on investments received 7,937 8,374
Cash received from other activities 525 61
Technical assistance disbursed (58,407) (46,629)
Financial expenses paid (4) (2)
Net Cash Provided by Operating Activities 30,224 41,804
CASH FLOWS FROM INVESTING ACTIVITIES
Net cash invested in time deposits and other obligations of banks (57,212) (27,637)
Sales of investment securities 2,048 839
Maturities of investment securities 41,939 6,534
Purchases of investment securities (19,423) (18,548)
Net Cash Used in Investing Activities (32,648) (38,812)
Effect of Exchange Rate Changes on Due from Banks (92) (536)
Net (Decrease) Increase in Due from Banks (2,516) 2,456
Due from Banks at Beginning of Year 3,672 1,216
Due from Banks at End of Year $ 1,156 $ 3,672
RECONCILIATION OF (DECREASE) INCREASE IN NET ASSETS
TO NET CASH PROVIDED BY OPERATING ACTIVITIES:
(Decrease) Increase in net assets (TASF-2) $ (832) $19,102
Adjustments to reconcile (decrease) increase in net assets
to net cash provided by operating activities:
Change in contributions receivable 70 (70)
Change in undisbursed commitments 22,095 12,644
Translation adjustments 10,736 5,075
Unrealized investment (gains) losses (112) 699
Change in advances for technical assistance to member countries (860) 4,470
Amortization of discounts/premiums (469) 497
Change in accrued interest receivable and others (404) (613)
Net Cash Provided by Operating Activities $30,224 $41,804

 

 

 

 

See notes to financial statements (TASF-6).188 ANNUAL REPORT 2000

Ce ee

 

 

TASF-4
ASIAN DEVELOPMENT BANK-FECHNICAL ASSISTANCE SPECIAL FUND
STATEMENT OF RESOURCES
31 December 2000
Expressed in Thousands of United States Dollars (Note B)
Contributions Cumulative Contributions Cumulative
Committed Contributions Utilized Contributions Contributions
During 2000 Committed During 2000 Utilized Unutilized
DIRECT VOLUNTARY CONTRIBUTIONS
Australia $ - $ 2,484 $ - $ 2,484 $ =
Austria = 159 = 159 =
Bangladesh - 47 - 47 Belgium - 1,394 - 1,394 Canada - 3,346 - 3,346 China, People’s Rep. of - 600 - 600 Denmark - 1,963 - 1,963 Finland - 237 - 237 France = 1,697 - 1,697 Germany - 8315 - 3315 Hong Kong, China - 100 - 100 India 103 2,763 103 2,763 »
Indonesia - 250 - 250 Italy = 774 = 774 =
Japan - 47,710 - 47,710 Korea, Rep. of - 1,900 - 1,900 Malaysia - 909 - 909 Netherlands - 1,338 - 1,338 New Zealand - 1,096 - 1,096 Norway - 3279) - 3,279 Pakistan - 1,387 70 1,387 Singapore - 1,100 - 1,100 Spain - 190 - 190 Sri Lanka - 6 - 6 Sweden - 861 - 861 Switzerland - 1,035 - 1,035 Taipei,China - 200 - 200 United Kingdom - 5,617 - 5,617 United States - 1,500 - 1,500 Total 103 87,257 A733 87,257 =
REGULARIZED TASF REPLENISHMENTS,
ALLOCATION FROM ORDINARY CAPITAL
RESOURCES NET INCOME AND
OTHER RESOURCES’ (Note D) 80,000 815,101 90,886 700,213 114,888
TRANSFERS TO ASIAN DEVELOPMENT FUND oa (3,472) = (3,472) a
UNREALIZED INVESTMENT HOLDING GAINS = 569 = = 569
TOTAL $80,103 $899,455 $91,059 $783,998 $115,457

1 Other resources represent income and replenishments accruing to TASF since 1 April 1980.
2 Includes exchange loss amounting to $10,599.

See notes to financial statements (TASF-6).Financial Statements 189

CO

TASF-5

ASIAN DEVELOPMENT BANK-FECHNICAL ASSISTANCE SPECIAL FUND

SUMMARY STATEMENT OF TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE APPROVED AND EFFECTIVE
For the Year Ended 31 December 2000

Expressed in Thousands of United States Dollars (Note B)

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Project
Project Implementation/

Recipient Preparation Advisory Total
Bangladesh $ (144) $ 1,102 $ 958
Bhutan - 38 38
Cambodia - (7) (7)
China, People’s Rep. of 284 5,008 5,292
Cook Islands - 61 61
East Timor - 3,793 3,793
Fiji Islands - 1,720 1,720
India 450 12121 A2t574
Indonesia (83) 1,670 1,587
Kazakhstan 99 (344) (245)
Kiribati - 150 150
Kyrgyz Republic - 2,329 2,329
Lao PDR 150 4,755 4,905
Malaysia (14) (253) (267)
Maldives 132 1,411 1,543
Marshall Islands - 361 361
Micronesia, Fed. States of - 791 791
Mongolia (135) 1,247 iNest 2)
Nepal (4) 1,378 1,374
Pakistan 500 6,828 7,328
Papua New Guinea (248) 533 285
Philippines (26) 3,731 3,705
Samoa - 1,447 1,447
Solomon Islands 7h 462 533
Sri Lanka 44 597 641
Tajikistan 228 150 378
Thailand 150 2,719 2,869
Tonga - 202 202
Tuvalu - (79) (79)
Uzbekistan (29) 1,256 1,227.
Vanuatu 183 1,128 1,311
Viet Nam 100 2,128 2,228

Total $1,708 $58,433 60,141

Regional Activities 20,315

TOTAL $80,456

Negative amounts represent net undisbursed commitments written back to balances available for future commitments (Notes B and E).

See notes to financial statements (TASF-6).190 ANNUAL REPORT 2000

Oe OO

ASIAN DEVELOPMENT BANK-FECHNICAL ASSISTANCE SPECIAL FUND

NOTES TO FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
31 December 2000 and 1999

NOTE A-NATURE OF OPERATIONS

The Technical Assistance Special Fund (TASF) was established to provide technical assistance on a grant basis to
developing member countries of the Asian Development
Bank (ADB) and for regional technical assistance. TASF
resources consist of direct voluntary contributions by
members, allocations from the net income of Ordinary
Capital Resources (OCR) and Asian Development Fund
(ADF) contributions, and revenue from investments and
other sources.

NOTE B-SUMMARY OF SIGNIFICANT
ACCOUNTING POLICIES

Presentation of the Financial Statements

The financial statements of the TASF are presented on the
basis of unrestricted and temporarily restricted net assets.
TASF reports contributed cash and other assets as restricted support if they are received with donor stipulations
that limit the use of the donated assets. When a donor
restriction expires, that is, when a stipulated time or purpose restriction is accomplished, temporarily restricted net
assets are reclassified to unrestricted net assets and reported in the Statement of Activities and Changes in Net
Assets as net assets released from restrictions. There were
no restricted net assets at 31 December 2000 and 1999.

Investments

All investment securities held by TASF are reported at
estimated fair value, with realized and unrealized gains
and losses included in revenue. Estimated fair value generally represents market value. Cost or amortized cost is
used to approximate fair value for certain short-term investments not traded in the market (time deposits, etc.).

Contributions

Contributions from members are included in the financial
statements from the date contribution agreements become effective. Contributions from donors which are restricted by them to technical assistance (TA) projects/
programs with specified procurement sources are classified as temporarily restricted contributions. Those without any stipulations as to specific use are accounted for as
unrestricted contributions.

Technical Assistance to Member Countries

Technical assistance is recognized in the financial statements when the related project is approved and becomes
effective. Upon completion of the TA project, any undisbursed amount is written back as a reduction in technical
assistance for the period and the corresponding undisbursed commitment is eliminated accordingly.

Reporting Currency

The financial statements of TASF are expressed in thousands of current United States dollars. As a matter of
convenience, the United States dollar is the functional
and reporting currency and is used to measure exchange
gains and losses.

Translation of Currencies

Assets, liabilities, and uncommitted balances in currencies other than United States dollars are translated at the
applicable rates of exchange at the end of a reporting
period. Contributions included in the financial statements
during the year are recognized at applicable exchange
rates as of the respective dates of commitment. Revenue
and expense amounts in currencies other than United
States dollars are translated for each semimonthly period
generally at the applicable rates of exchange at the beginning of each period; such practice approximates the application of average rates in effect during the period.
Translation adjustments are accounted for as exchange
gains or losses and are charged or credited to operations.

Accounting Estimates

The preparation of financial statements in conformity with
generally accepted accounting principles requires Management to make estimates and assumptions that affect
the reported amounts of assets and liabilities as at the end
of the year and the reported amounts of income and
expenses during the year. The actual results could differ
from those estimates.

Statement of Cash Flows
For the purposes of the statement of cash flows, the TASF

considers that its cash and cash equivalents are limited to
“DUE FROM BANKS.”Reclassification

Certain 1999 amounts have been reclassified to conform
with the 2000 presentation.

NOTE C4NVESTMENTS
The currency compositions of the investment portfolio as

of 31 December 2000 and 1999 expressed in United States
dollars were as follows:

 

Currency 2000 1999
Australian dollar $ 5,113,000 $ 5,757,000
Canadian dollar 129,910,000 128,083,000
Euro 18,528,000 60,886,000
Swiss franc 81,954,000 17,924,000
Others 3,264,000 3,509,000

Total $238,769,000 $216,159,000

The annualized rate of return on the average investments
held during the year, based on the portfolio held at the
beginning and end of each month was 5.18% (3.50% - 1999).

Investments are governed by the Investment Authority
approved by the Board of Directors. The main investment
management objective is to maintain security and liquidity. Subject to these parameters, ADB seeks the highest
possible return on TASF investments.

In 1999, the Board of Directors approved a new Investment Authority. The new Investment Authority allows investment in higher-yielding investment instruments, such
as high-quality corporate bonds, mortgage-backed securities, and asset-backed securities.

NOTE D-FUNDING

Since inception in 1967, direct contributions have been
made by 29 member countries. In 1986 and 1992, the
Board of Governors, in authorizing a replenishment of
the ADF, provided for an allocation to the TASF in an
aggregate amount equivalent to $72,000,000 and
$140,000,000, respectively, to be used for technical assistance to ADF borrowing developing member countries
and for regional technical assistance.

In addition, an aggregate amount equivalent to
$501,000,000 has been allocated to TASF out of OCR in
1992 to 1995 and in 1998 to 2000.

Some of the direct contributions received were subject
to restricted procurement sources, while some were given

Financial Statements 191

TASF-6

on condition that the technical assistance be made on a
reimbursable basis.

The total contributions received for the years ended
31 December 2000 and 1999 were without restrictions.

NOTE E-UNDISBURSED COMMITMENTS

Undisbursed commitments are denominated in United
States dollars and represent effective ongoing grantfinanced TA projects/programs which are not yet disbursed
as of the end of the year. During 2000, an amount of
$13,390,000 ($7,038,000 - 1999) representing completed
and canceled TA projects has been written back as a
reduction in technical assistance of the period and the
corresponding undisbursed commitment has been eliminated. The fair value of undisbursed commitments
approximates the amounts undisbursed because ADB
expects that grants will be made for all projects/programs covered by the commitments. When TA provided
as a project preparatory grant leads to an ADB loan, the
amount of the grant exceeding $250,000 will be refunded
by the borrower through the loan proceeds under the
terms of that ADB loan. Refinanced amounts of $279,000
($296,000 -1999) were charged to such loans and credited to revenue from other sources of the TASF during the
year ended 31 December 2000.

NOTE F-FAIR VALUE OF FINANCIAL INSTRUMENTS

 

Fair value of a financial instrument is defined as the
amount at which the instrument could be exchanged in a
current transaction between willing parties, other than in
a forced or liquidation sale.

The fair value of financial instruments that are shortterm approximates their carrying amounts.

If available, quoted market values are used to determine
fair values. Financial instruments for which market quotations are not readily available are valued using methodologies and assumptions which necessarily require the use of
subjective judgments. Accordingly, the actual value at which
such financial instruments could be exchanged in a current
transaction or whether they are actually exchangeable is
not determinable.

The Fund’s statement of financial position carrying
amounts are considered to approximate fair values for all
significant financial instruments. See Notes B and E for
discussions with respect to investments and undisbursed
commitments, respectively.192 ANNUAL REPORT 2000

Oe Oe

REPORT OF INDEPENDENT AUDITORS
Asian Development Bank

In our opinion, the accompanying statements of financial position and the related
statements of activities and changes in net assets and of cash flows present fairly,
in all material respects, in terms of United States dollars, the financial position of
the Asian Development Bank-apan Special Fund at 31 December 2000 and 1999,
and the results of its activities and changes in net assets and its cash flows for the
years then ended, in conformity with generally accepted accounting principles in
the United States. These financial statements are the responsibility of the management of the Asian Development Bank; our responsibility is to express an opinion on
these financial statements based on our audits. We conducted our audits of these
statements in accordance with generally accepted auditing standards in the United
States which require that we plan and perform the audit to obtain reasonable
assurance about whether the financial statements are free of material misstatement. An audit includes examining, on a test basis, evidence supporting the amounts
and disclosures in the financial statements. An audit also includes assessing the
accounting principles used and significant estimates made by management, as well
as evaluating the overall financial statement presentation. We believe that our
audits provide a reasonable basis for the opinion expressed above.

ZutewietyhoaaCsopia Le?

Boston, Massachusetts
7 March 2001Financial Statements 193

eee recesses eeeeeeceecce eee ese seer eeeeeeeeeE®

 

 

 

 

JSF-1
ASIAN DEVELOPMENT BANK-}4PAN SPECIAL FUND
STATEMENT OF FINANCIAL POSITION
31 December 2000 and 1999
Expressed in Thousands of United States Dollars (Note B)
2000 1999
JSF JSF
Regular & Regular &
ACCSF Supplementary Total ACCSF — Supplementary Total
ASSETS
DUE FROM BANKS (Note B) $ 61 $ 537 $ 598 $ 73 $ 4,535 $ 4,608
INVESTMENTS (Notes A, B, and C)
Government and government-guaranteed obligations 103,281 10,676 113,957 98 - 98
Time deposits 127,616 136,256 263,872 116,754 255,227 371,981
Other securities - 145,816 145,816 - 39,679 39,679
230,897 292,748 523,645 116,852 294,906 411,758
EQUITY INVESTMENTS (Notes A, B, and D), net - 338 338 - 709 709
ACCRUED REVENUE 46 6,701 6,747 30 5,803 5,833
OTHER ASSETS (Note E) 71 4,289 4,360 - 4,781 4,781
TOTAL $231,075 $304,613 $535,688 $116,955 $310,734 $427,689

LIABILITIES AND UNCOMMITTED BALANCES

ACCOUNTS PAYABLE AND OTHER LIABILITIES

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Payable to Ordinary Capital Resources $ = $ 144 $ 144 $ 11 $ 194 $ 205
Other Liabilities (Note E) 4,807 60 4,867 485 59 544
4,807 204 5,011 496 253 749
UNDISBURSED COMMITMENTS (Notes B and F)
Technical assistance 13,099 114,416 127,515 6,182 118,295 124,477
Interest payment assistance 76,185 - 76,185 84,145 - 84,145
89,284 114,416 203,700 90,327 118,295 208,622
NET ASSETS (JSF-2) (Note B), represented by:
Uncommitted balances (Note G)
Unrestricted - 43,469 43,469 - 66,718 66,718
Temporarily restricted (Notes A and H) 136,637 57,276 193,913 26,129 54,710 80,839
136,637 100,745 237,382 26,129 121,428 147,557
Net accumulated investment income
Temporarily restricted (Notes A and H) 347 89,248 89,595 3 70,758 70,761
136,984 189,993 326,977 26,132 192,186 218,318
TOTAL $231,075 $304,613 $535,688 $116,955 $310,734 $427,689

 

See notes to financial statements (JSF-4).194 ANNUAL REPORT 2000

Oe

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

JSF-2
ASIAN DEVELOPMENT BANK-}4PAN SPECIAL FUND
STATEMENT OF ACTIVITIES AND CHANGES IN NET ASSETS
For the Years Ended 31 December 2000 and 1999
Expressed in Thousands of United States Dollars (Note B)
2000 1999
JSF JSF
Regular & Regular &
ACCSF Supplementary Total ACCSF — Supplementary Total
CHANGES IN UNRESTRICTED NET ASSETS
CONTRIBUTIONS (Notes B and H) $ ~ $ 37,561 $ 37,561 $ = $ 16,781 $ 16,781
REVENUE FROM OTHER SOURCES - 150 150 - @D 72
UNREALIZED INVESTMENT
(LOSSES) GAINS ON EQUITY INVESTMENTS (Note D) - (330) (330) - 506 506
NET ASSETS RELEASED FROM (PUT BACK INTO)
RESTRICTIONS (Notes B and H) 9,632 (557) 9,075 95,678 3,463 99,141
Total 9,632 36,824 46,456 95,678 20,822 116,500
EXPENSES
Technical assistance (Notes B and F) 9,575 59,274 68,849 6,628 55,801 62,429
Interest payment assistance (Note B) - - - 89,000 - 89,000
Administrative expenses 57 1,485 1,542 50 1,368 1,418
Total 9,632 60,759 70,391 95,678 57,169 152,847
CONTRIBUTIONS AND REVENUE LESS THAN EXPENSES - (23,935) (23,935) - (36,347) (36,347)
EXCHANGE (LOSSES) GAINS (Note B) - (116) (116) - 532 532
DECREASE IN UNRESTRICTED NET ASSETS
BEFORE TRANSLATION ADJUSTMENTS - (24,051) (24,051) - (35,815) (35,815)
TRANSLATION ADJUSTMENTS (Note B) - 802 802 - (538) (538)
DECREASE IN UNRESTRICTED NET ASSETS - (23,249) (23,249) - (36,353) (36,353)

 

CHANGES IN TEMPORARILY RESTRICTED NET ASSETS

 

 

CONTRIBUTIONS (Notes B and H) 136,587 = 136,587 104,367 31,838 136,205
REVENUE FROM INVESTMENTS (Notes B and C) 401 19,823 20,224 3 16,576 16,629
NET ASSETS (RELEASED FROM) PUT BACK INTO
RESTRICTIONS (Notes B and H) (9,632) 557 (9,075) (95,678) (3,463) (99,141)
EXCHANGE GAINS (LOSSES) (Note B) 10 = 10 (35) = (35)
TRANSLATION ADJUSTMENTS (Note B) (16,514) 676 (15,838) 17,425 418 17,843
INCREASE IN TEMPORARILY RESTRICTED NET ASSETS 110,852 21,056 131,908 26,132 45,369 71,501
INCREASE (DECREASE) IN NET ASSETS 110,852 (2,193) 108,659 26,132 9,016 35,148
NET ASSETS AT BEGINNING OF YEAR 26,132 192,186 218,318 = 183,170 183,170

NET ASSETS AT END OF YEAR $136,984 $189,993 $326,977 $26,132 $192,186 $218,318

See notes to financial statements (JSF-4).Financial Statements 195

eee recesses eeeeeeceecce eee ese seer eeeeeeeeeE®

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

JSF-3
ASIAN DEVELOPMENT BANK-}4PAN SPECIAL FUND
STATEMENT OF CASH FLOWS
For the Years Ended 31 December 2000 and 1999
Expressed in Thousands of United States Dollars (Note B)
2000 1999
JSF JSF
Regular & Regular &
ACCSF Supplementary Total ACCSF = Supplementary Total
CASH FLOWS FROM OPERATING ACTIVITIES
Contributions received $ 136,587 $ 37,561 $174,148 $104,367 $ 48,619 $ 152,986
Interest on investments received 128 17,731 17,859 11 13,767 13,778
Technical assistance disbursed (2,684) (60,622) (63,306) - (72,389) (72,389)
Interest assistance paid (3,736) - (3,736) (4,855) - (4,855)
Administrative expenses paid (14) (2,038) (2,052) - (972) (972)
Others—net 11 19 30 (35) 141 106
Net Cash Provided by (Used in) Operating Activities 130,292 (7,349) 122,943 99,488 (10,834) 88,654
CASH FLOWS FROM INVESTING ACTIVITIES
Net cash (invested in) withdrawn from time deposits,
other obligations of banks and corporate bonds (21,072) 14,048 (7,024) (108,770) 15,159 (93,611)
Sales of investment securities 9,309 ~ 9,309 66,161 49,181 115,342
Maturities of investment securities 298,815 - 298,815 174,840 - 174,840
Purchases of investment securities (423,740) (10,696) (434,436) (231,268) (47,964) (279,232)
Net Cash (Used in) Provided by Investing Activities (136,688) 3,352 (133,336) (99,037) 16,376 (82,661)
Effect of Exchange Rate Changes on Due from Banks 6,384 (1) 6,383 (378) (1,336) (1,714)
Net (Decrease) Increase in Due from Banks (12) (3,998) (4,010) 73 4,206 4,279
Due from Banks at Beginning of Year 73 4,535 4,608 - 329 329
Due from Banks at End of Year $ 61 $ 537 $ 598 $ 73 $ 4,535 $ 4,608

 

 

RECONCILIATION OF INCREASE (DECREASE)
IN NET ASSETS TO NET CASH PROVIDED BY
(USED IN) OPERATING ACTIVITIES:
Increase (decrease) in net assets (JSF-2) $ 110,852 $ (2,193) $108,659 $ 26,132 $ 9,016 $ 35,148
Adjustments to reconcile increase (decrease) in
net assets to net cash provided by (used in)
operating activities:

 

Unrealized investment losses (gains) 7 382 389 - (506) (506)
Translation adjustments 16,514 (1,478) 15,036 (17,425) 120 (17,305)
Change in undisbursed commitments (1,043) (3,879) (4,922) 90,327 (15,955) 74,372
Amortization of discounts/premiums (264) (1,245) (1,509) (13) (284) (297)
Others—net 4,226 1,064 5,290 467 (3,225) (2,758)
Net Cash Provided by (Used in) Operating Activities $ 130,292 $ (7,349) $122,943 $ 99,488 $(10,834) $ 88,654

 

 

 

See notes to financial statements (JSF-4).196 ANNUAL REPORT 2000

Oe

ASIAN DEVELOPMENT BANK-}APAN SPECIAL FUND

NOTES TO FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
31 December 2000 and 1999

NOTE A-NATURE OF OPERATIONS

The Japan Special Fund (JSF) was established in March 1988
when Japan and the Asian Development Bank (ADB) entered
into a financial arrangement whereby Japan agreed to make
an initial contribution and ADB became the administrator.
The purpose of JSF is to help developing member countries
(DMCs) of ADB restructure their economies and broaden the
scope of opportunities for new investments, thereby assisting the recycling of funds to DMCs of ADB. While JSF resources are used mainly to finance technical assistance (TA)
operations, these resources may also be used for equity
investment operations in ADB’s DMCs. Under the agreement
between ADB and Japan, ADB may invest the proceeds of JSF
pending disbursement. The revenue from such investments,
if retained by ADB, may only be used to pay for direct and
identifiable costs incurred in the administration of JSF.

In March 1999, the Board approved the acceptance and
administration by ADB of a new facility, the Asian Currency
Crisis Support Facility (ACCSF) to assist Asian currency crisisaffected member countries (CAMCs). Funded by Japan, ACCSF
was established within JSF to assist in the economic recovery
of CAMCs through interest payment assistance (IPA) grants,
TA grants and guarantees. ACCSF funds must be committed
within three years after the date the facility became effective.
Thereafter, the use of any residual funds, if and when the
purpose of ACCSF is considered to be fulfilled, shall be decided in consultation between ADB and Japan.

NOTE B—SUMMARY OF SIGNIFICANT
ACCOUNTING POLICIES

Presentation of the Financial Statements

The financial statements of JSF are presented on the basis of
unrestricted and temporarily restricted net assets. ACCSF
funds are separately reported in the financial statements.

JSF reports the contributions of cash and other assets as
restricted support if they are received with donor stipulations
that limit the use of the donated assets. When the donor
restriction expires, that is, when a stipulated time or purpose
restriction is accomplished, temporarily restricted net assets
are reclassified to unrestricted net assets and reported in the
Statement of Activities and Changes in Net Assets as net
assets released from restrictions.

Investments

All investment securities held by JSF are reported at estimated fair value, with realized and unrealized gains and
losses included in revenue. Estimated fair value generally
represents market value. Cost or amortized cost is used to
approximate fair value for certain short-term investments
not traded in the market (time deposits, etc.).

Contributions

Contributions by Japan are included in the financial statements from the date indicated by Japan that funds are expected to be made available. Contributions which are restricted
by the donor for specific TA projects/programs or for IPA
grants are classified as temporarily restricted contributions.
Those without any stipulation as to specific use are accounted
for as unrestricted contributions and reported as such.

Technical Assistance and Interest Payment Assistance

Technical assistance and interest payment assistance are
recognized in the financial statements when the related
project or assistance is approved and becomes effective.
Upon completion of the TA project, any undisbursed amount
is written back as a reduction in TA for the period and the
corresponding undisbursed commitment is eliminated,
accordingly.

Functional Currency and Reporting Currency

The functional currency of JSF is the Japanese yen, while the
reporting currency is the United States dollar. The financial
statements are expressed in thousands of current United
States dollars.

Translation of Currencies

Assets, liabilities, and uncommitted balances are translated
from the functional currency to the reporting currency at the
applicable rates of exchange at the end of a reporting period.
Contributions included in the financial statements during
the year are translated at the applicable exchange rates as of
the respective dates of commitment. Revenue and expense
amounts in Japanese yen are translated for each semimonthly
period at the applicable rates of exchange at the beginningof each period; such practice approximates the application
of average rates in effect during the period. Exchange gains
or losses on currency transactions arise on translation differences between the date a project/program is committed
and the timing of disbursements. Exchange gains or losses
are charged or credited to operations.

Equity Investments

Equity investments with readily determinable fair values are
reported at fair value. ADB makes provisions for possible
loss of value quarterly based on Management's evaluation
of potential losses on investments without readily determinable fair values.

Accounting Estimates
The preparation of financial statements in conformity with gener
ally accepted accounting principles requires Management to
make estimates and assumptions that affect the reported

Financial Statements 197

eee recesses eeeeeeceecce eee ese seer eeeeeeeeeE®

JSF-4

CONTINUED

amounts of assets and liabilities as at the end of the year and the
reported amounts of income and expenses during the year. The
actual results could differ from those estimates.

Statement of Cash Flows

For the purposes of the statement of cash flows, the JSF
considers that its cash and cash equivalents are limited to
“DUE FROM BANKS.”

Reclassification

Certain 1999 amounts have been reclassified to conform
with the 2000 presentation.

NOTE C4NVESTMENTS
The currency compositions of the investment portfolio as of

31 December 2000 and 1999 expressed in United States
dollars were as follows:

 

 

 

 

2000 1999
JSF JSF
Regular and Regular and
Currency ACCSF Supplementary Total ACCSF Supplementary Total
Japanese yen $230,897,000 $ -  $230,897,000  $116,852,000  $ -  $116,852,000
United States dollar - 292,748,000 292,748,000 = 294,906,000 294,906,000
Total $230,897,000  $292,748,000  $523,645,000 — $116,852,000  $294,906,000 $41,758,000

 

 

The annualized rates of return on the average investments
held under ACCSF and JSF funds during the year, based on the
portfolio held at the beginning and end of each month were
1.18% and 6.42%, respectively (0.07% and 5.22% — 1999).

Investments are governed by the Investment Authority
approved by the Board of Directors. The main investment
management objective is to maintain security and liquidity.
Subject to these parameters, ADB seeks the highest possible
return on JSF’s investments.

In 1999, the Board of Directors approved a new Investment
Authority. The new Investment Authority allows investment
in higher-yielding investment instruments, such as high-quality corporate bonds, mortgage-backed securities, and assetbacked securities.

NOTE D-EQUITY INVESTMENTS

ADB used JSF resources to make an equity investment in India
in 1990 totaling $338,000 at 31 December 2000 ($709,000 1999). The investment is reported at its estimated fair value
and the unrealized loss of $330,000 (gain of $506,000 -1999)
is charged against income for the year.

NOTE E-OTHER ASSETS AND LIABILITIES

Included in other assets and liabilities are interfund transfers
between JSF and ACCSF. As of 31 December 2000, an amount
of $584,000 ($485,000 - 1999) was receivable from ACCSF.
The said amount is reflected as other assets under JSF and
other liabilities under ACCSF.198 ANNUAL REPORT 2000

Oe

ASIAN DEVELOPMENT BANK-}APAN SPECIAL FUND

NOTES TO FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
31 December 2000 and 1999

NOTE F-UNDISBURSED COMMITMENTS

Undisbursed commitments are denominated in United States
dollars and represent TA projects/programs and IPA grants
which have become effective but have not been disbursed.
During 2000, an amount of $11,751,000 ($4,779,000 - 1999),
representing completed and canceled TA projects, has been
written back as a reduction in technical assistance for the
period and the corresponding undisbursed commitment has
been eliminated. The fair value of undisbursed commitments
approximates the amounts outstanding because JSF expects

that disbursements will substantially be made for all the
projects/programs covered by the commitments.

NOTE G-UNCOMMITTED BALANCES

Uncommitted balances are composed of amounts which
have not been committed by ADB as at 31 December 2000.
These balances include TA projects/programs that had been
approved but which had not yet become effective.

As of 31 December 2000 and 1999 these balances were as
follows:

 

 

2000 1999
JSF Regular and JSF Regular and
ACCSF — Supplementary Total ACCSF Supplementary Total

Uncommitted balances $136,637,000  $100,745,000 $237,382,000 $26,129,000  $121,428,000  $147,557,000
TA projects/programs

approved by Japan and

ADB but not yet effective (1,875,000) (38,725,000) (40,600,000) (3,850,000) (32,859,000) (36,709,000)
TA projects/programs

approved by Japan and

not yet effective (8,865,000) (10,918,000) (19,783,000) (3,000,000) (18,630,000) (21,630,000)
Uncommitted balances

available for new

commitments $125,897,000  $ 51,102,000 $176,999,000 $19,279,000 $ 69,939,000 _—$ 89,218,000

 

 

NOTE H-CONTRIBUTIONS AND TEMPORARILY
RESTRICTED NET ASSETS

All contributions for the years ended 31 December 2000 and
1999 were received during the respective years. Some of the
contributions received were with the restriction that they
were to be utilized for specific TA projects/programs and
IPA grants. Such contributions were classified as temporarily restricted support.

Temporarily restricted uncommitted balances are available for the following purposes as of 31 December 2000 and
1999:

2000 1999
Asian Currency Crisis
Support Facility $136,637,000 $26,129,000
Japan Special Fund
Environment-Related
Activities 29,113,000 27,710,000
Financial Sector 10,997,000 10,843,000
Private Sector Promotion 9,676,000 9,032,000
Gender and Development 7,096,000 6,777,000
Training/Symposium 394,000 348,000
57,276,000 54,710,000
Total

$193,913,000 $80,839,000Accumulated investment income net of accumulated administrative expenses has been categorized as temporarily
restricted net assets because, under the terms of the agreement between ADB and Japan, it may only be used for defraying of the Fund's administrative expenses.

Net assets released from restrictions relate to commitments for technical assistance and interest payment assistance satisfying the conditions specified by the donor and, in
the case of accumulated investment income, to defray the
administrative expenses of the Fund.

NOTE I-GUARANTEES

To assist in the economic recovery of CAMCs, a guarantee
facility is provided under ACCSF. In this connection, Japan
has made available a noninterest-bearing, nonnegotiable
note in the amount of $60 billion ($3.2 billion), encashable
by ADB at any time to meet any calls on the guarantee
facility. As of 31 December 2000, no guarantee has been
made.

Financial Statements 199

eee recesses eeeeeeceecce eee ese seer eeeeeeeeeE®

JSF-4

NOTE J-FAIR VALUE OF FINANCIAL INSTRUMENTS.

Fair value of a financial instrument is defined as the amount
at which the instrument could be exchanged in a current
transaction between willing parties, other than in a forced or
liquidation sale.

The fair value of financial instruments that are short-term
approximates their carrying amounts.

If available, quoted market values are used to determine
fair values. Financial instruments for which market quotations are not readily available are valued using methodologies
and assumptions which necessarily require the use of subjective judgments. Accordingly, the actual value at which such
financial instruments could be exchanged in a current transaction or whether they are actually exchangeable is not determinable.

The Fund’s statement of financial position carrying amounts
are considered to approximate fair values for all significant
financial instruments. See Notes B, C, D, and E for discussions
with respect to investments, equity investments, and undisbursed commitments, respectively.200 ANNUAL REPORT 2000

Oe Oe

REPORT OF INDEPENDENT AUDITORS
Asian Development Bank

In our opinion, the accompanying statements of financial position and the related
statements of activities and changes in net assets, and of cash flows present fairly,
in all material respects in terms of United States dollars, the financial position of the
Asian Development Bank-Asian Development Bank Institute Special Fund at 31
December 2000 and 1999, and the results of its activities and changes in net assets
and its cash flows for the years ended 31 December 2000 and 1999, in conformity
with generally accepted accounting principles in the United States. These financial
statements are the responsibility of the management of the Asian Development
Bank Institute; our responsibility is to express an opinion on these financial statements based on our audits. We conducted our audits of these statements in accordance with generally accepted auditing standards in the United States which require
that we plan and perform the audit to obtain reasonable assurance about whether
the financial statements are free of material misstatement. An audit includes
examining, on a test basis, evidence supporting the amounts and disclosures in the
financial statements. An audit also includes assessing the accounting principles
used and significant estimates made by management, as well as evaluating the
overall financial statements presentation. We believe that our audits provide a
reasonable basis for the opinion expressed above.

Jude wary hoaarCoopio LF

Boston, Massachusetts
7 March 2001Financial Statements 201

eee reeeseerseeeceeceecee eee ese reese eee nese eeE®

 

 

 

ADBISF-1
ASIAN DEVELOPMENT BANK-ASIAN DEVELOPMENT BANK INSTITUTE SPECIAL FUND
STATEMENT OF FINANCIAL POSITION
31 December 2000 and 1999
Expressed in Thousands of United States Dollars (Note B)
2000 1999

ASSETS
DUE FROM BANKS (Note B) $ 940 $ 595
INVESTMENTS (Notes B, C, and D)

Time deposits and government securities 4,041 10,665
PROPERTY, FURNITURE, AND EQUIPMENT (Note B) $4,752 $5,291

Less—allowance for depreciation 2,787 1,965 2,194 3,097
OTHER ASSETS 1,869 2,074

TOTAL $8,815 $16,431

LIABILITIES AND UNCOMMITTED BALANCES
ACCOUNTS PAYABLE TO ORDINARY CAPITAL RESOURCES $ 115 $ 252
ACCOUNTS PAYABLE AND OTHER LIABILITIES 1,086 1,064
UNCOMMITTED BALANCES (ADBISF-2)

Unrestricted net assets 7,614 15,5115

TOTAL $8,815 $16,431

See notes to financial statements (ADBISF-4).202 ANNUAL REPORT 2000

OO

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

ADBISF-2
ASIAN DEVELOPMENT BANK-ASIAN DEVELOPMENT BANK INSTITUTE SPECIAL FUND
STATEMENT OF ACTIVITIES AND CHANGES IN NET ASSETS
For the Years Ended 31 December 2000 and 1999
Expressed in Thousands of United States Dollars (Note B)
2000 1999
CHANGES IN UNRESTRICTED NET ASSETS
CONTRIBUTIONS (Note B) $ 8,278 $ 6,654
REVENUE
Income from investments (Notes B and C) 12 13
Income from other sources—net 4 4
Total 8,294 6,671
EXPENSES
Administrative expenses 10,306 9,718
Program expenses 4,379 2,059
Total 14,685 AE
CONTRIBUTIONS AND REVENUE LESS THAN EXPENSES (6,391) (5,106)
EXCHANGE (LOSSES) GAINS—NET (57) 73
TRANSLATION ADJUSTMENTS (Note B) (1,053) 2,150
DECREASE IN UNRESTRICTED NET ASSETS
AFTER TRANSLATION ADJUSTMENTS (7,501) (2,883)
NET ASSETS AT BEGINNING OF YEAR 15,115 17,998
NET ASSETS AT END OF YEAR $ 7,614 $15,115

See notes to financial statements (ADBISF-4).ASIAN DEVELOPMENT BANK-ASIAN DEVELOPMENT BANK INSTITUTE SPECIAL FUND

STATEMENT OF CASH FLOWS

For the Years Ended 31 December 2000 and 1999
Expressed in Thousands of United States Dollars (Note B)

CASH FLOWS FROM OPERATING ACTIVITIES
Contributions received
Interest on investments received
Expenses paid

Net Cash Used in Operating Activities

CASH FLOWS FROM INVESTING ACTIVITIES
Net cash withdrawn from time deposits
Sales of investment securities
Purchases of investment securities

Net Cash Provided by Investing Activities
Effect of Exchange Rate Changes on Cash
Net Increase (Decrease) in Due From Banks
Due from Banks at Beginning of Year
Due from Banks at End of Year
RECONCILIATION OF DECREASE IN NET ASSETS TO
NET CASH USED IN OPERATING ACTIVITIES:
Decrease in net assets (ADBISF-2)
Adjustments to reconcile decrease in net assets
to net cash used in operating activities:
Translation adjustments
Amortization of discounts/premiums
Depreciation

Others—net

Net Cash Used in Operating Activities

See notes to financial statements (ADBISF-4).

Financial Statements

2000

$ 8,278
10
(13,964)
(5,676)
4,661
25,678
(24,908)
5,431
590

345

595

$ 940

$ (7,501)

1,053

864

(89)

$ (5,676)

eee reese ereeeeeeeceecee eee ese seer e ee eeeeeeE®

ADBISF-3

1999

$ 6,654
(9,981)
(3,318)
2,815
49,741

(49,012)
3,544
(345)

(119)

mele

$ 595

$ (2,883)

(2,150)
(3)
813

905

$ (3,318)204 ANNUAL REPORT 2000

CO Oe

ASIAN DEVELOPMENT BANK-ASIAN DEVELOPMENT BANK INSTITUTE SPECIAL FUND

NOTES TO FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
31 December 2000 and 1999

NOTE A-NATURE OF OPERATIONS

In 1996, the Asian Development Bank (ADB) approved the
establishment of the Asian Development Bank Institute (the
Institute) in Tokyo, Japan as a subsidiary body of ADB. The
Institute commenced its operations upon the receipt of the
first funds from Japan on 24 March 1997, and it was inaugurated on 10 December 1997. The Institute’s funds may consist of voluntary contributions, donations, and grants from
ADB member countries, nongovernment organizations, and
foundations. The objectives of the Institute, as defined under
its Statute, are the identification of effective development
strategies and capacity improvement for sound development management in developing member countries.

NOTE B—SUMMARY OF SIGNIFICANT
ACCOUNTING POLICIES

Presentation of the Financial Statements

The financial statements of the Institute are presented on
the basis of those for not-for-profit organizations.

The Institute reports donor's contributions of cash and
other assets as unrestricted support as these are made available to the Institute without conditions other than for the
purposes of pursuing the objectives of the Institute.

Investments

All investment securities held by the Institute are reported at
estimated fair value, with realized and unrealized gains and
losses included in revenue. Estimated fair value generally
represents market value. Cost or amortized cost is used to
approximate fair value for certain short-term investments
not traded in the market (time deposits, etc.).

Property, Furniture, and Equipment

Property, furniture, and equipment are stated at cost and
depreciated over their estimated useful lives using the straightline method.

Contributions

Contributions from donors are included in the financial statements from the date committed.

Functional Currency and Reporting Currency

The currencies of contributing members are functional currencies. The reporting currency is the United States dollar
and the financial statements are expressed in thousands of
current United States dollars.

Translation of Currencies

Assets, liabilities, and uncommitted balances are translated
from the functional currency to the reporting currency at the
applicable rates of exchange at the end of a reporting period.
Contributions included in the financial statements during
the period are translated at the applicable exchange rates as
of the respective dates of commitment. Revenue and expense amounts in currency other than the United States
dollar are translated for each semimonthly period at the
applicable rates of exchange at the beginning of each period;
such practice approximates the application of average rates
in effect during the period.

Accounting Estimates

The preparation of the financial statements in conformity with
generally accepted accounting principles requires Management to make estimates and assumptions that affect the reported amounts of assets and liabilities as at the end of the year
and the reported amounts of income and expenses during the
year. Actual results could differ from those estimates.

Statement of Cash Flows

For the purposes of the statement of cash flows, the Institute
considers that its cash and cash equivalents are limited to
"DUE FROM BANKS.”

NOTE CANVESTMENTS

The investment portfolio was composed wholly of investments denominated in Japanese yen. As of 31 December
2000 and 1999, the estimated fair value of the investments
approximates the amortized cost. All such investments are
due within one year or less.

The annualized rate of return on the average investments
held during the year, based on the portfolio held at the beginning and end of each month was 0.12% (0.10% - 1999).Investments are governed by the Investment Authority
approved by the Board of Directors. The main investment
management objective is to maintain security and liquidity.
Subject to these parameters, ADB seeks the highest possible
return on its investments.

In 1999, the Board of Directors approved a new Investment
Authority. The new Investment Authority allows investment
in higher-yielding investment instruments, such as high-quality corporate bonds, mortgage-backed securities, and assetbacked securities.

NOTE D-FAIR VALUE OF FINANCIAL INSTRUMENTS

Fair value of a financial instrument is defined as the amount
at which the instrument could be exchanged in a current
transaction between willing parties, other than in a forced or
liquidation sale.

The fair value of financial instruments that are short-term
approximates their carrying amounts.

The Institute’s statement of financial position carrying
amounts are considered to approximate fair values for all
significant financial instruments.

NOTE E-STAFF RETIREMENT PLAN AND
POSTRETIREMENT MEDICAL BENEFITS

Staff Retirement Plan

The Institute participates in the contributory defined benefit
Staff Retirement Plan (the Plan) of ADB. Every member of the

Financial Statements 205

eee reese ereeeeeeeceecee eee ese seer e ee eeeeeeE®

ADBISF-4

CONTINUED

professional staff, as defined under the Plan, shall, as a
condition of service, become a participant from the first day
of service, provided that at such a date, the staff has not
reached the normal retirement age of 60. Retirement benefits are based on length of service and highest average
remuneration during two years of eligible service. The Plan
assets are segregated and are not included in the statement
of financial position. The costs of administering the Plan are
absorbed by ADB, except for fees paid to the investment
managers and related charges, including custodian fees,
which are borne by the Plan.

Participants are required to contribute 9 1/3% of their
salary to the Plan and may also make voluntary contributions.
The Institute’s contribution is determined at a rate sufficient
to cover that part of the costs of the Plan not covered by the
participants’ contributions.

Postretirement Medical Benefits Plan

The Institute participates in the cost-sharing plan of ADB for
retirees medical insurance premiums of ADB. Under the
plan, the Institute is obligated to pay 75% of the Group
Medical Insurance Plan premiums for retirees and their eligible dependents who elect to participate. The cost-sharing
plan is currently unfunded.

Generally accepted accounting principles require an
actuarially determined assessment of the periodic cost of
postretirement medical benefits.206 ANNUAL REPORT 2000

CO Oe

ASIAN DEVELOPMENT BANK-ASIAN DEVELOPMENT BANK INSTITUTE SPECIAL FUND

NOTES TO FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
31 December 2000 and 1999

The following table sets forth the pension and postretirement benefits at 31 December 2000 and at 31 December 1999:

 

Change in benefit obligation:
Benefit obligation at beginning of year
Service cost
Interest cost
Plan participants’ contributions
Amendments
Actuarial gain

Benefit obligation at end of year

Change in plan assets:
Fair value of plan assets at beginning of year
Actual return on plan assets
Employer contribution
Plan participants’ contributions

Fair value of plan assets at end of year

Funded status
Unrecognized actuarial (gain)
Unrecognized prior service cost

Net amount recognized

Amounts recognized in the statement of financial position
consist of:
Accrued benefit liability

Net amount recognized

Weighted-average assumptions as of 31 December
Discount rate
Expected return on plan assets
Rate of compensation increase varies with age and averages

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Postretirement
Pension Benefits Medical Benefits
2000 1999 2000 1999
$560,000  $ 264,000 $179,000 $110,000
254,000 298,000 92,000 117,000
70,000 42,000 21,000 15,000
142,000 59,000 - - - (17,000) (276,000) (103,000) (23,000) (63,000)
$ 750,000 $560,000 $252,000 $179,000
$ 330,000  $ 140,000 $ - §$ (22,000) 37,000 - 201,000 94,000 - 142,000 59,000 - $651,000  $ 330,000 $ - § =
$ (99,000) — $(230,000) $(252,000) — $(179,000)
(334,000) (119,000) (79,000) (63,000)
- - (17,000) 
 

$(433,000)  $(349,000) $(348,000) — $(242,000)

 

 

$(433,000) — $(349,000) $(348,000) — $(242,000)
$(433,000) — $(349,000) $(348,000) — $(242,000)

 

 

 

7.50% 7.75% 7.50% 7.75%
8.00% 8.00% n/a n/a
6.50% 6.75% 6.50% 6.75%

 

For measurement purposes, a 9.75% annual rate of increase in the per capita cost of covered health care benefits
was assumed for the valuation as at 31 December 2000. The
rate was assumed to decrease gradually to 4.75% for 2009 and
remain at that level thereafter.

Components of net periodic benefit cost:
Service cost year
Interest cost
Expected return on plan assets
Recognized actuarial loss

Net periodic benefit cost

There were no projected benefit obligation, accumulated
benefit obligation, nor fair value of plan assets for the pension
plan with accumulated benefit obligations in excess of plan
assets as of 31 December 2000 ($560,000, $430,000, and
$330,000 -31 December 1999).

Postretirement
Pension Benefits Medical Benefits
2000 1999 2000 1999
$254,000 $298,000 $ 92,000 $117,000
70,000 42,000 21,000 15,000
(33,000) (21,000) - (6,000) - (7,000) 
 

$285,000 $319,000 $106,000 $132,000Assumed health care cost trend rates have a significant
effect on the amounts reported for the health care plan. A
one-percentage-point change in assumed health care cost
trend rates would have the following effects:

1-Percentage- 1-PercentagePointIncrease Point Decrease

Effect on total service

and interest cost

components $21,000 $(18,000)
Effect on postretirement

benefit obligation 45,000 (36,000)

Financial Statements 207

eee reese ereeeeeeeceecee eee ese seer e ee eeeeeeE®

ADBISF-4Statistical Annex

The Record
Operational Data

15.
16.
17.
18.
19:
20.
2e
2s
23.
24,
25.
26.
27.
28.
29.
30.

Public and Private Sector Loan Approvals by Country, 2000

Loan Approvals by Sector: Three-Year Moving Averages, 1968-1970—1998-2000

Loan Approvals by Sector, 2000

Distribution of Lending Among Developing Members, 1968-2000

Sectoral Distribution of Loans, 2000

Loan Approvals by Country and Source of Funds, 2000

Projects Involving Cofinancing, 2000

Private Sector Approvals and Total Project Costs by Country, 2000

Private Sector Approvals and Total Project Costs by Sector, 2000

Private Sector Loan and Equity Investment Approvals by Year, 1987-2000

Cumulative Private Sector Approvals by Country, 1983-2000

Loan Disbursements, 1999 and 2000

Program Loan Disbursements, 2000

Number of Loans and Projects Approved and Under Administration, Project Completion Reports Circulated,
Projects Completed, Loans Closed, and Project/Program Performance Audit Reports Circulated

Amount of Loans Approved, Contracts Awarded, and Disbursements

Distribution of Contracts Awarded by Country of Origin, Project and Program Loans Combined—OCR

Distribution of Contracts Awarded by Country of Origin, Project and Program Loans Combined—ADF

Contracts Awarded by Country of Origin, 2000, Project Loans—OCR

Contracts Awarded by Country of Origin, 2000, Project Loans—ADF

Contracts Awarded by Country of Origin, 2000, Project Loans—OCR and ADF Combined

Estimates of Payment to Supplying Countries for Foreign Procurement Under Program Lending, 2000

Cumulative Contracts Awarded by Country of Origin—Technical Assistance Operations

Contracts Awarded by Country of Origin, 1998-2000—Technical Assistance Operations

Technical Assistance Grants by Country and Regional Activities, 1967-2000, 1999, 2000

Technical Assistance Grants, 2000

Technical Assistance Grants by Sector, 1967-2000, 1999, 2000

Technical Assistance Loans and Grants by Sector, 2000

Regional Technical Assistance Activities, 2000

Net Transfer of Resources (OCR and ADF), 1998-2000

Net Transfer of Resources (OCR and ADF Combined), 1991-2000

Financial Resources

3
32.
33)
34.
35.

Asian Development Fund Resources and Commitment Authority
Technical Assistance Special Fund

Japan Special Fund—Regular and Supplementary Contributions
Japan Special Fund—Asian Currency Crisis Support Facility
Japan Fund for Poverty Reduction Assistance, 2000

Economic Data

36.
of.
38.
39.
40.
41.
42.

Estimates of Real GDP Growth Rate, 1990-2000 and Per Capita GNP, 1999

Gross Domestic Saving, Gross Capital Formation, and Resource Gap as Percentage of GDP, 1998-2000
Changes in Consumer Prices, 1998-2000

Merchandise Trade, 1998-2000

International Reserves and Ratio of Reserves to Imports, 1998-2000

Net Flows of Financial Resources, 1997-1999

Total External Debt and Debt Service Ratio, 1997-1999

Social Indicators

43.
44,
45.

Poverty and Inequality Indicators
Environment Indicators
Human Development Indicators

209
210

210
21S)
214
216
218
218
219
221
221
222
222
223
223)

224
226
228
229
230
231
232
233
234
235
236
238
245
245
246
248
249

250

250
251
252
252
252

253

253
254
255
256
257
258
259

260

260
261
262Statistical Annex 209

ee

 

THE RECORD
(amounts in $ million)
ETS oerL ty ey es Ee) 2000
OPERATIONAL ACTIVITIES
TOTAL LENDING (amount) 88,039° 9,344 5,982 4,979 5,850
Number of Projects‘ 1,624 74 57 52 74
OCR Loans (amount) 63,686 7,794 4,995 3,908 4,258
Number of Loans 932 42 39 34 41
Disbursements (amount) 41,766 5,304 5,623 3,710 2,884
ADF Loans (amount) 24,353 1,550 987 1,070 1,592
Number of Loans 871 48 27 32 49
Disbursements (amount) 16,528 1,154 1,144 1,114 1,135
A. Government and Government-Guaranteed Loans (amount) 86,715 9,299 5,846 4,832 5,694
Number of Projects‘ 1,551 2 51 48 70
OCR Loans (amount) 62,377 7,749 4,859 3,762 4,102
Number of Loans 860 40 32 30 37
Disbursements (amount) 40,868 5,238 5,539 3,647 2,823
ADF Loans (amount) 24,338 1,550 987 1,070 1,592
Number of Loans 866 48 27 32 49
Disbursements (amount) 16,513 1,154 1,144 1,114 its
B. Private Sector Loans? (amount) 1,324 45 136 146 156
Number of Projects‘ 72 2 6 4 4
OCR Loans (amount) 1,309 45 136 146 156
Number of Loans 72 2 6 4 4
Disbursements (amount) 898 66 84 63 61
ADF Loans (amount) 14 - - - Number of Loans 5 - - - Disbursements (amount) 14 - - - EQUITY INVESTMENT? (amount) 618 60 42 7 78
Number of Investments 108 7 5) 1 7
EQUITY UNDERWRITING? (amount) 40 - - - Number of Commitments 6 - - - TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE® (amount) 1,899 153 148 3 172
Number of Projects 4,502 293 244 314 306
COFINANCING® (amount) 34,991 1,291 2,939 2,860 2,966
Number of Projects 557 33 24 27 4
RESOURCES
Ordinary Capital Resources
Authorized Capital (at end of period) 45,485 47,102 49,154 47,945 45,485
Subscribed Capital (at end of period) 45,271 46,411 48,456 47,597 45,271
Borrowings (gross) 41,801 5,588 9,617 5,186 1,693
Outstanding Debt (at end of period) 25,340 17,542 23,780 26,269 25,340
Ordinary Reserve (at end of period) 7,166 5,867 6,211 6,689 7,166
Special Reserve (at end of period) 182 179 182 182 182
Gross Income 25,390 1,450 1,832 2,028 2,301
Net Income after Appropriation of Commissions/
Guarantee Fees to Special Reserve 8,680 468 474 450 626
Special Funds Resources
Asian Development Fund
Total Resources (at end of period) 20,993 18,219 20,535 22,087 20,993
Technical Assistance Special Fund
Total Resources (at end of period)‘ 899 637 722 809 899
Japan Special Fund
Regular and Supplementary Contributions (at end of period)’ 854 658 734 799 854
Asian Currency Crisis Support Facility! 241 = - 104 241
ADB Institute Special Fund?
Total Resources (at end of period) 43 12 28 35 43

Cumulative totals may not add because of rounding.

Amounts and numbers adjusted to exclude terminated loans.

Projects with multiple loans are counted once. Cumulative number of projects excludes supplementary loans.

Comprising technical assistance grants funded by ADB and other sources. Regional technical assistance projects included.
Adjusted to reflect changes in cofinancing arrangements.

Figures revised to include other resources and transfers to Asian Development Fund.

Figures represent contributions.

e@reancy210 ANNUAL REPORT 2000 OPERATIONAL DATA

Ce

Table 1
PUBLIC AND PRIVATE SECTOR LOAN APPROVALS BY COUNTRY, 2000
($ million)

Total PET

Project Cost? Approved

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

BANGLADESH
Chittagong Hill Tracts Rural Development - 30.00 30.00 60.30 26 Oct
Northwest Crop Diversification ~ 46.30 46.30 66.20 21 Nov
Road Maintenance and Improvement 22.00 72.00 94.00 160.20 29 Nov
Meghnaghat Power? 50.00 = 50.00 300.00 5 Dec
Southwest Flood Damage Rehabilitation - 54.80 54.80 71.90 21 Dec
Subtotal 72.00 203.10 275.10 658.60
BHUTAN
Health Care Reform Program - 10.00 10.00 10.00 21 Sep
Road Improvement - 9.60 9.60 12.80 3 Oct
Subtotal - 19.60 19.60 22.80
CAMBODIA
Rural Credit and Savings - 20.00 20.00 26.56 27 Apr
Stung Chinit Irrigation and Rural Infrastructure - 16.00 16.00 23.80 5 Sep
Provincial Power Supply - 18.60 18.60 24.20 5 Dec
Emergency Flood Rehabilitation - 55.00 55.00 70.50 21 Dec
Subtotal = 109.60 109.60 145.06
CHINA, PEOPLE’S REPUBLIC OF
Hefei-Xi‘an Railway 300.00 - 300.00 2,835.00 17 Aug
Chongqing-Guizhou Roads Development
(Leichong Expressway) 120.00 - 120.00 345.00 21 Nov
Chongqing-Guizhou Roads Development
(Chongzun Expressway) 200.00 - 200.00 834.00 21 Nov
Tianjin Wastewater Treatment and Water
Resources Protection 130.00 = 130.00 340.70 11 Dec
West Henan Agricultural Development 64.30 - 64.30 151.30 19 Dec
Wind Power Development 58.00 - 58.00 98.00 20 Dec
Subtotal 872.30 = 872.30 4,604.00
INDIA
Surat-Manor Tollway 180.00 - 180.00 280.00 27 Jul
Housing Finance II 21 Sep
- Housing and Urban Development Corporation 100.00 - 100.00 121.00
- National Housing Bank 40.00 - 40.00 50.00
- Housing Development Finance Corporation 80.00 - 80.00 246.00
- Industrial Credit and Investment Corporation
of India 80.00 - 80.00 100.00
Power Transmission Improvement (Sector) 250.00 - 250.00 491.50 6 Oct
Gujarat Power Sector Development Program 13 Dec
- Program Loan 150.00 - 150.00 150.00
- Project Loan 200.00 - 200.00 310.20
Calcutta Environmental Improvement 250.00 - 250.00 360.00 19 Dec
Subtotal 1,330.00 - 1,330.00 2,108.70
INDONESIA
Industrial Competitiveness and Small and Medium
Enterprise Development Program 200.00 - 200.00 200.00 16 Mar
Community Empowerment for Rural Development 65.00 50.00 115.00 170.20 19 Oct
Marine and Coastal Resources Management - 50.00 50.00 70.20 26 Oct
Technological and Professional Skills Development Sector 180.00 - 180.00 250.00 29 Nov
Road Rehabilitation (Sector) 190.00 - 190.00 250.00 11 Dec
Decentralized Health Services - 65.00 65.00 87.00 14 Dec
Subtotal 635.00 165.00 800.00 1,027.40

 

a Total project cost includes financing by ADB, governments, borrowers, beneficiaries, and subborrowers; cofinancing from official, export credit, and
commercial sources; equity sponsors; and local participating private companies and financial institutions.
b Private sector loan without government guarantee.Statistical Annex 211

ee

CONTINUED

Total PETC}

Project Cost? Approved

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

KAZAKHSTAN
Farm Restructuring Sector Development Program 14 Nov
- Program Loan 25.00 - 25.00 25.00
- Project Loan 20.00 - 20.00 30.77
Subtotal 45.00 - 45.00 SSin7
KYRGYZ REPUBLIC
Community-Based Infrastructure Services Sector - 36.00 36.00 45.00 8 Jun
Skills and Entrepreneurship Development - 25.00 25.00 31.30 28 Nov
Subtotal = 61.00 61.00 76.30
LAO PEOPLE’S DEMOCRATIC REPUBLIC
Primary Health Care Expansion - 20.00 20.00 25.00 24 Aug
Decentralized Irrigation Development and
Management Sector - 15.50 15.50 24.20 28 Nov
Rural Access Roads - 25.00 25.00 37.50 7 Dec
Subtotal = 60.50 60.50 86.70
MARSHALL ISLANDS
Skills Training and Vocational Education - 6.82 6.82 9.10 29 Nov
Subtotal - 6.82 6.82 9.10
MICRONESIA, FEDERATED STATES OF
Basic Social Services - 8.02 8.02 7A 20 Dec
Subtotal = 8.02 8.02 11.71
MONGOLIA
Cadastral Survey and Land Registration - 9.90 9.90 12.70 27 Jan
Second Financial Sector Reform Program - 15.00 15.00 15.00 22 Jun
Agriculture Sector Development Program 21 Dec
- Program Loan - 7.00 7.00 7.00
- Project Loan - 10.00 10.00 13.08
Subtotal = 41.90 41.90 47.78
NEPAL
Small Towns Water Supply and Sanitation Sector - 35.00 35.00 53.90 12 Sep
Crop Diversification - 11.00 11.00 14.04 9 Nov
Corporate and Financial Governance - 7.30 7.30 13.30 14 Dec
Melamchi Water Supply - 120.00 120.00 464.00 21 Dec
Subtotal = 173.30 173.30 545.24
PAKISTAN
North-West Frontier Province Barani Area Development Phase II - 52.00 52.00 99.00 28 Nov
Small- and Medium-Size Enterprise Trade Enhancement
Finance 150.00 - 150.00 302.00 7 Dec
Microfinance Sector Development Program 13 Dec
- Program Loan - 70.00 70.00 70.00
- Project Loan - 80.00 80.00 217.20
Energy Sector Restructuring Program 300.00 50.00 350.00 350.00 14 Dec
- Capacity Enhancement in the Energy Sector - 5.00 5.00 6.00
Subtotal 450.00 257.00 707.00 1,044.20
PAPUA NEW GUINEA
Rehabilitation of the Maritime Navigation Aids System 20.60 - 20.60 30.12 12 Sep
Microfinance and Employment - 9.60 9.60 20.51 19 Oct
Provincial Towns Water Supply and Sanitation - 15.34 15.34 23.30 14 Dec
Subtotal 20.60 24.94 45.54 73:93

 

a Total project cost includes financing by ADB, governments, borrowers, beneficiaries, and subborrowers; cofinancing from official, export credit, and
commercial sources; equity sponsors; and local participating private companies and financial institutions.212 ANNUAL REPORT 2000

Ce

CONTINUED

Total PET

Project Cost? Approved

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

PHILIPPINES
Grains Sector Development Program 24 Apr
- Program Loan 100.00 - 100.00 100.00
- Project Loan 75.00 - 75.00 136.20
Pasig River Environmental Management and
Rehabilitation Sector Development Program 20 Jul
- Program Loan 100.00 - 100.00 100.00
- Project Loan 75.00 - 75.00 150.00
Technical Education and Skills Development 25.00 - 25.00 70.00 24 Aug
- Fund for Technical Education and Skills Development 20.00 - 20.00 20.00
North Luzon Expressway Rehabilitation and Expansion? 45.00 - 45.00 377.50 26 Oct
Infrastructure for Rural Productivity Enhancement Sector 75.00 - 75.00 150.00 31 Oct
Subtotal 515.00 - 515.00 1,103.70
SAMOA
Education Sector = 7.00 7.00 10.06 5 Sep
Small Business Development - 3.50 3.50 4.86 21 Nov
Subtotal - 10.50 10.50 14.92
SOLOMON ISLANDS
Post-Conflict Emergency Rehabilitation - 10.00 10.00 10.00 21 Dec
Subtotal = 10.00 10.00 10.00
SRI LANKA
Forest Resources Management Sector - 27.00 27.00 40.00 28 Jun
Secondary Education Modernization - 50.00 50.00 76.00 12 Sep
Water Resources Management - 19.70 19.70 28.20 19 Sep
Protected Area Management and Wildlife Conservation - 12.00 12.00 34.72 19 Oct
Private Sector Development Program (Subprogram |) 15.00 85.00 100.00 100.00 12 Dec
Kelanitissa Power? 26.00 - 26.00 104.00 19 Dec
Subtotal 41.00 193.70 234.70 382.92
TAJIKISTAN
Power Rehabilitation - 34.00 34.00 62.80 20 Dec
Road Rehabilitation - 20.00 20.00 26.80 20 Dec
Subtotal - 54.00 54.00 89.60
UZBEKISTAN
Senior Secondary Education 57.00 - 57.00 132.20 8 Feb
Railway Modernization 70.00 - 70.00 155.00 31 Oct
Small and Medium Enterprise Development 50.00 - 50.00 100.00 11 Dec
Subtotal 177.00 - 177.00 387.20
VIET NAM
Thu Duc Build-Operate-Transfer Water Treatment? 35.00 - 35.00 140.00 9 Nov
Rural Health - 68.30 68.30 98.70 9 Nov
Tea and Fruit Development ~ 40.20 40.20 57.60 14 Nov
Rural Enterprise Finance - 80.00 80.00 145.51 12 Dec
Subtotal 35.00 188.50 223.50 441.81
REGIONAL
Almaty-Bishkek Regional Road Rehabilitation 31 Oct
- Kazakhstan Component 65.00 - 65.00 112.40
- Kyrgyz Republic Component - 5.00 5.00 6.70
Subtotal 65.00 5.00 70.00 119.10
TOTAL 4,257.90 1,592.48 5,850.38 13,066.54

 

a Total project cost includes financing by ADB, governments, borrowers, beneficiaries, and subborrowers; cofinancing from official, export credit, and
commercial sources; equity sponsors; and local participating private companies and financial institutions.
b Private sector loan without government guarantee.Statistical Annex 213

ee

Table 2
LOAN APPROVALS BY SECTOR: THREE-YEAR MOVING AVERAGES, 1968-1970—1998-2000

 

 

a ele) | Agriculture ireltks cng Social Transport NN
Lending? and Natural Energy Finance _—_and Nonfuel Ties and Commu-  sector/
($ million) To gery Wate) Cad ig) nications (oles
(percent of total lending)
Average during
1968-1970 128.44 19.48 11.98 23.36 15.06 6.10 24.03 0.00
1969-1971 199.25 20.48 25.38 19571 8.69 4.20 21.68 0.00
1970-1972 271.92 15.69 33.06 13597 5.04 10.75 21.48 0.00
1971-1973 330.53 15.78 32.18 15.49 0.42 12:25 23.88 0.00
1972-1974 428.42 18.76 26.71 15.06 4.02 14.12 21.32 0.00
1973-1975 543.16 27.87 23.03 16.73 4.25 10.44 17.68 0.00
1974-1976 661.30 29.27 21,35 17.44 5.48 9.85 16.61 0.00
1975-1977 774.22 30.51 22.02 15.46 4.19 10.85 16.97 0.00
1976-1978 940.36 27.42 21.53 14.37 7.25 13.45 15.98 0.00
1977-1979 1,098.92 29.86 24.03 11.81 5.62 16.55 12.10 0.04
1978-1980 1,282.01 30.95 24.88 10.96 Bo3, 16.84 12739) 0.06
1979-1981 1,454.96 32.56 27.21 10.72 0.90 ei 9.41 0.09
1980-1982 1,598.97 34.00 2771 10.00 0.74 15:97 11.53 0.06
1981-1983 1,751.46 33.68 26.60 10.61 2.36 18.26 TS2 0.96
1982-1984 1,937.03 34.18 28.98 7.01 AST 14.36 12.12 1.43
1983-1985 1,978.52 32.42 24.63 6.50 1.87 20.30 12°75 1.53
1984-1986 2,013.77 35.46 25.26 4.65 0.34 17.48 14.40 2.40
1985-1987 2,081.84 30.63 17.47 11.24 3.06 15.24 20.54 1.81
1986-1988 Zol27 26.90 18.76 12.84 7.46 1132 21.27 1.45
1987-1989 3,053.71 22.37 16.41 17.16 6.69 14.60 21.94 0.82
1988-1990 3,564.93 25.83 20.78 12567 4.50 15:15. 19137 Al
1989-1991 4,115.48 25.30 26.04 10.83 3.58 14.86 17.93 1.45
1990-1992 4,561.39 21.63 28.15 9°53 379 12.95 20.82 313)
1991-1993 4,973.89 13.87 30.33 9.09 5.45 14.30 23.70 3.25
1992-1994 4,616.65 10.98 27.80 7.63 4.44 14.16 29.49 5.49
1993-1995 4,791.51 12.07 30.62 6.59 3.36 17.56 26.67 3.13
1994-1996 4,829.86 14.11 26.77 7.62 2.58 17.13 25.40 639)
1995-1997 6,718.20 A274 18.15 29.16 1.30 18.37 16.31 4.00
1996-1998 6,883.75 10.09 11.15 33.86 1729) 15.25 18.47 9.88
1997-1999 6,768.38 9.14 9.00 32.41 2.22 18.70 16.86 11.67
1998-2000 5,603.82 11.32 13.68 11.48 4.53 20.77 22.81 15.41
Cumulative
(1968-2000) 88,089.42 18.72 21.36 14.76 3.57 16.69 19.74 5.21

 

0.00 Data negligible.

a Total column may not tally because of rounding.214 ANNUAL REPORT 2000

Ce

Table 3
LOAN APPROVALS BY SECTOR, 2000

Rite

ADF

 

AGRICULTURE AND NATURAL RESOURCES

BAN Chittagong Hill Tracts Rural Development - 30.00 30.00
BAN Northwest Crop Diversification - 46.30 46.30
CAM Rural Credit and Savings - 20.00 20.00
CAM Stung Chinit Irrigation and Rural Infrastructure - 16.00 16.00
PRC West Henan Agricultural Development 64.30 - 64.30
INO Community Empowerment for Rural Development 65.00 50.00 115.00
INO Marine and Coastal Resources Management - 50.00 50.00
KAZ Farm Restructuring Sector Development Program
- Program Loan 25.00 - 25.00
- Project Loan 20.00 - 20.00
LAO _ Decentralized Irrigation Development and Management Sector - 15.50 15.50
MON Cadastral Survey and Land Registration - 9.90 9.90
MON Agriculture Sector Development Program
- Program Loan - 7.00 7.00
- Project Loan - 10.00 10.00
NEP Crop Diversification - 11.00 11.00
PAK North-West Frontier Province Barani Area Development Phase II - 52.00 52.00
PAK Microfinance Sector Development Program
- Program Loan - 70.00 70.00
- Project Loan - 80.00 80.00
PHI Grains Sector Development Program
- Program Loan 100.00 = 100.00
- Project Loan 75.00 - 75.00
PHI Infrastructure for Rural Productivity Enhancement Sector 75.00 - 75.00
SRI Forest Resources Management Sector = 27.00 27.00
SRI Protected Area Management and Wildlife Conservation - 12.00 12.00
VIE Rural Enterprise Finance - 80.00 80.00
VIE Tea and Fruit Development - 40.20 40.20
Subtotal 424.30 626.90 1,051.20
ENERGY
BAN Meghnaghat Power? 50.00 - 50.00
CAM Provincial Power Supply - 18.60 18.60
PRC Wind Power Development 58.00 - 58.00
IND Power Transmission Improvement (Sector) 250.00 - 250.00
IND Gujarat Power Sector Development Program
- Program Loan 150.00 = 150.00
- Project Loan 200.00 - 200.00
PAK Energy Sector Restructuring Program 300.00 50.00 350.00
- Capacity Enhancement in the Energy Sector - 5.00 5.00
SRI Kelanitissa Power* 26.00 - 26.00
TAJ Power Rehabilitation - 34.00 34.00
Subtotal 1,034.00 107.60 1,141.60
FINANCE
MON Second Financial Sector Reform Program - 15.00 15.00
NEP Corporate and Financial Governance - 7.30 7.30
PNG Microfinance and Employment - 9.60 9.60
SAM _ Small Business Development - 3.50 3.50
SRI Private Sector Development Program (Subprogram 1) 15.00 85.00 100.00
UZB Small and Medium Enterprise Development 50.00 - 50.00
Subtotal 65.00 120.40 185.40
INDUSTRY AND NONFUEL MINERALS
INO Industrial Competitiveness and Small and Medium Enterprise
Development Program 200.00 - 200.00
PAK  Small- and Medium-Size Enterprise Trade Enhancement Finance 150.00 - 150.00
Subtotal 350.00 = 350.00

— Data not applicable.

a Private sector loan without government guarantee.

Key: BAN (Bangladesh), CAM (Cambodia), PRC (People's Republic of China), IND (India), INO (Indonesia), KAZ (Kazakhstan), LAO (Lao People's Democratic
Republic), MON (Mongolia), NEP (Nepal), PAK (Pakistan), PNG (Papua New Guinea), PHI (Philippines), SRI (Sri Lanka), TAJ (Tajikistan), UZB (Uzbekistan),
and VIE (Viet Nam).Statistical Annex 215

ee

CONTINUED

eT ied)

ADF

 

SOCIAL INFRASTRUCTURE

BHU Health Care Reform Program - 10.00 10.00
PRC Tianjin Wastewater Treatment and Water Resources Protection 130.00 - 130.00
IND Housing Finance II
- Housing and Urban Development Corporation 100.00 - 100.00
- National Housing Bank 40.00 - 40.00
- Housing Development Finance Corporation 80.00 - 80.00
- Industrial Credit and Investment Corporation of India 80.00 - 80.00
INO Technological and Professional Skills Development Sector 180.00 - 180.00
INO Decentralized Health Services = 65.00 65.00
KGZ Community-Based Infrastructure Services Sector - 36.00 36.00
KGZ Skills and Entrepreneurship Development - 25.00 25.00
LAO Primary Health Care Expansion - 20.00 20.00
RMI __ Skills Training and Vocational Education - 6.82 6.82
NEP Small Towns Water Supply and Sanitation Sector - 35.00 35.00
NEP Melamchi Water Supply - 120.00 120.00
PNG Provincial Towns Water Supply and Sanitation - 15.34 15.34
PHI Pasig River Environmental Management and Rehabilitation
Sector Development Program
- Program Loan 100.00 = 100.00
- Project Loan 75.00 - 75.00
PHI Technical Education and Skills Development 25.00 - 25.00
- Fund for Technical Education and Skills Development 20.00 - 20.00
SAM _ Education Sector - 7.00 7.00
SRI Secondary Education Modernization - 50.00 50.00
SRI Water Resources Management = 19.70 19.70
UZB_ Senior Secondary Education 57.00 - 57.00
VIE Thu Duc Build-Operate-Transfer Water Treatment? 35.00 - 35.00
VIE Rural Health - 68.30 68.30
Subtotal 922.00 478.16 1,400.16
TRANSPORT AND COMMUNICATIONS
BAN Road Maintenance and Improvement 22.00 72.00 94.00
BHU Road Improvement - 9.60 9.60
PRC Hefei-Xi’an Railway 300.00 - 300.00
PRC Chonggqing-Guizhou Roads Development (Leichong Expressway) 120.00 - 120.00
PRC Chongqing-Guizhou Roads Development (Chongzun Expressway) 200.00 - 200.00
IND Surat-Manor Tollway 180.00 - 180.00
INO Road Rehabilitation (Sector) 190.00 - 190.00
LAO Rural Access Roads - 25.00 25.00
PNG Rehabilitation of the Maritime Navigation Aids System 20.60 - 20.60
PHI North Luzon Expressway Rehabilitation and Expansion? 45.00 - 45.00
TA) Road Rehabilitation - 20.00 20.00
UZB Railway Modernization 70.00 - 70.00
REG Almaty-Bishkek Regional Road Rehabilitation
- Kazakhstan Component 65.00 - 65.00
- Kyrgyz Republic Component - 5.00 5.00
Subtotal 1,212.60 131.60 1,344.20
MULTISECTOR
BAN Southwest Flood Damage Rehabilitation - 54.80 54.80
CAM Emergency Flood Rehabilitation - 55.00 55.00
FSM Basic Social Services - 8.02 8.02
SOL Post-Conflict Emergency Rehabilitation - 10.00 10.00
Subtotal = 127.82 127.82
OTHERS
IND Calcutta Environmental Improvement 250.00 - 250.00
Subtotal 250.00 = 250.00
TOTAL 4,257.90 1,592.48 5,850.38

— Data not applicable.

a Private sector loan without government guarantee.

Key: BAN (Bangladesh), BHU (Bhutan), CAM (Cambodia), PRC (People's Republic of China), IND (India), INO (Indonesia), KGZ (Kyrgyz Republic), LAO (Lao
People's Democratic Republic), RMI (Marshall Islands), FSM (Federated States of Micronesia), NEP (Nepal), PNG (Papua New Guinea), PHI (Philippines),
REG (Regional), SAM (Samoa), SOL (Solomon Islands), SRI (Sri Lanka), TAJ (Tajikistan), UZB (Uzbekistan), and VIE (Viet Nam).216 ANNUAL REPORT 2000

Table 4

DISTRIBUTION OF LENDING AMONG DEVELOPING MEMBERS, 1968-2000
Percentage of Value of Loans Approved in Period

ai T tse hed 1973-1977 SYA Seah ]-74

ADF ADF

 

Afghanistan - 2.6 - TA - 0.9
Azerbaijan - - - - Bangladesh - - 0.5 273 - 32.8

Bhutan - = = = = =
Cambodia - 0.8 - - - China, People’s Rep. of = _ - - _ _

Cook Islands - = - = - 0.1
Fiji Islands 0.6 - 0.1 - 0.8 Hong Kong, China 2.9 - a7) - 0.8 
India = = = _
Indonesia - 34.6 17.2 45 28.4 2.1
Kazakhstan - - = = = 
Kiribati = - _ _
Korea, Rep. of 26.2 1.8 20.9 = 18.4 =
Kyrgyz Republic = = - - _ _

Lao PDR = = 2
Malaysia 10.6 1.6 10.9 - 9.6 Maldives = = = = = 0.1

Marshall Islands - = = = = =
Micronesia, Fed. States of = m - _ _

 

Mongolia - - - - - Myanmar - - 0:3 13.6 - 11.4
Nauru = = = = = =
Nepal 0.3 WET - ot - We
Pakistan 89 9.0 12.8 19.2 Sal 27
Papua New Guinea = et 0.8 a 0.8 19
Philippines 13.5: Ae, DAD le 19.1 27,
Samoa = 20, = 1.4 = 0.7
Singapore 12.4 15 1.4 - Ta Solomon Islands - = = 1.0 - 0.2
Sri Lanka 17 ie 0.1 8.4 - 8.6
Taipei,China 13.3 - = - = Tajikistan - - - - - Thailand O95 - 11.9 0.8 15:9) 2.7
Tonga = = - 0.2 = 0.2
Turkmenistan - - - - - Tuvalu = = = = = Uzbekistan - - - - - Vanuatu = = = = = 0.1
Viet Nam - 5.6 0.2 3.0 - Regional - - - - - TOTAL 100.0 100.0 100.0 100.0 100.0 100.0
Lending ($ million) 753.9 201.5 2,326.9 964.9 4,856.2 2,351.1

— nil.
0.0 is equivalent to value less than 0.05.Statistical Annex 217

Cr

 

1983-1987 1988-1992 EERE Ly, 1998-2000
OCR ADF OCR ADF ADF ADF

- - - - - - - - Afghanistan
- - - - - - - - Azerbaijan
- 317 - 25.4 0.2 2Ae2 13 17.5 Bangladesh
- 0.8 = 0.2 = 0.3 - 1.0 Bhutan
- - + et - 2.5 - 5.4 Cambodia
2.0 - 1233; - 23.4 - 25.3 - China, People’s Rep. of
- 0.1 - 0.1 = 0.2 - = Cook Islands
0.2 - 0.4 - 0.2 - - - Fiji Islands
- - - - - - - - Hong Kong, China
95 - 24.9 - 13.0 - 16.8 - India
33.7 a7, 31.0 Sa 22.2 3.7 26.5 45 Indonesia
- - - - 6) 0.8 0.3 - Kazakhstan
- 0.0 - 0.0 - - - 0.3 Kiribati
9.2 = 0.9 = 18.4 = - = Korea, Rep. of
- - - - - 35 - 5.4 Kyrgyz Republic
- eo - 35) = 5.8 = 2.9 Lao PDR
8.3 - Sa - 0.9 - - - Malaysia
= 0.2 = 0.2 = 0.2 = 0.4 Maldives
- - + 0.1 - 0.5 - 0.4 Marshall Islands
- = = - = 0.5 - 0.2 Micronesia, Fed. States of
- - - 0.5 - 4.8 - 2.5 Mongolia
- 3.5 - - - = - - Myanmar
= = = = = = 0.0 = Nauru
- 5 0.0 73 0.2 52 - 9.0 Nepal
15.9 34.3 10.1 29.0 41 20.5 5.8 OT. Pakistan
des 1.6 0.6 2.4 0.2 0.6 0.9 fee) Papua New Guinea
1231 1.4 10.9 a7. 6.7 Hl 11.0 0.2 Philippines
= 0.4 = 0.6 = 0.0 = 0.5 Samoa
- - - - - = - - Singapore
- 0.6 - 0.1 - 0.0 - 1.0 Solomon Islands
- 9.8 - 1127 0.0 7.8 0.6 14.5 Sri Lanka
- - = - = = - = Taipei,China
- - - - - - - 2 Tajikistan
7.8 - 5:5 - 8.5 - 7.6 - Thailand
= 0.2 = 0.3 = 0.2 = - Tonga
- - - - - - - Turkmenistan
= = = - = = = 0.1 Tuvalu
- - - - 0.3 0.3 23 - Uzbekistan
= 0.3 = 0.1 = 0.1 = 0.6 Vanuatu
- - - - 0.1 18.2 0.6 14.5 Viet Nam
- - 0.3 - - - 1.0 55 Regional
100.0 100.0 100.0 100.0 100.0 100.0 100.0 100.0 TOTAL

 

6,755.7. 3,617.3 13,978.5 6,428.3 21,853.8 2139-5 13,161.3 3,650.1 Lending ($ million)218 ANNUAL REPORT 2000

Ce

Table 5
SECTORAL DISTRIBUTION OF LOANS,? 2000

 

olay ADF Total

No. of No. of No. of

Loans ST coda) Key T a ae VI Coda Projects® $ Million
Agriculture and Natural Resources 7, 424.30 18 626.90 20 1,051.20 17.97
Energy 7 1,034.00 4 107.60 8 1,141.60 19151
Finance 2 65.00 5 120.40 6 185.40 3.17
Industry and Nonfuel Minerals 2: 350.00 - - 2 350.00 5.98
Social Infrastructure 2) 922.00 13 478.16 20 1,400.16 23.93
Transport and Communications 10 1,212.60 5 131.60 13 1,344.20 22.98
Multisector - - 4 127.82 4 127.82 219
Others 1 250.00 - - 1 250.00 4.27
TOTAL 41 4,257.90 49 1,592.48 74 5,850.38 100.00

— Data not applicable.
a Includes private sector loans.
b A project with multiple loans is counted as one project.

Table 6
LOAN APPROVALS BY COUNTRY AND SOURCE OF FUNDS,? 2000
(amounts in $ million)

 

OCR ADF ae) e1 | %
Bangladesh 72.00 203.10 275.10 4.70
Bhutan = 19.60 19.60 0.34
Cambodia = 109.60 109.60 1.87
China, People’s Rep. of 872.30 - 872.30 14.91
India 1,330.00 = 1,330.00 22.73
Indonesia 635.00 165.00 800.00 13.67
Kazakhstan 45.00 - 45.00 0.77
Kyrgyz Republic - 61.00 61.00 1.04
Lao PDR - 60.50 60.50 1.03
Marshall Islands - 6.82 6.82 0.12
Micronesia, Fed. States of - 8.02 8.02 0.14
Mongolia - 41.90 41.90 0.72
Nepal = 173.30 173.30 2.96
Pakistan 450.00 257.00 707.00 12.08
Papua New Guinea 20.60 24.94 45.54 0.78
Philippines 515.00 = 515.00 8.80
Samoa = 10.50 10.50 0.18
Solomon Islands - 10.00 10.00 0.17
Sri Lanka 41.00 193.70 234.70 4.01
Tajikistan = 54.00 54.00 0.92
Uzbekistan 177.00 = 177.00 3.03
Viet Nam 35.00 188.50 223.50 3.82
Regional 65.00 5.00 70.00 1.20
TOTAL 4,257.90 1,592.48 5,850.38 100.00

— Data not applicable.
a Includes loans to private sector without government guarantee.Statistical Annex 219

Ce ee

 

Table 7
PROJECTS INVOLVING COFINANCING, 2000
($ million)
LU as;
Member OCR ADF  Cofinancing AY ccm MeL)
Chittagong Hill Tracts Rural Development BAN - 30.00 15.00? Danish International Development Agency (DANIDA),
Denmark
- - 3.60  Palli Karma-Sahayak Foundation, Bangladesh
Meghnaghat Power? BAN 50.00 - 20.00 Commercial banks under ADB's Complementary

Financing Scheme
- - 80.00 Infrastructure Development Company Limited
= = 70.00 | Commercial banks under ADB's Political Risk Guarantee

Emergency Flood Rehabilitation CAM - 55.00 2.00? World Food Program

Provincial Power Supply CAM - 18.60 2.50% Agence Francaise de Developpement (AFD), France
Rural Credit and Savings CAM - 20.00 3.84 Local financial institutions, Cambodia

Stung Chinit Irrigation and Rural Infrastructure CAM - 16.00 2.607 AFD

Chongqing-Guizhou Roads Development PRC 200.00 - 164.30 China Construction Bank (CCB)
(Chongzun Expressway) - - 171.00 China Development Bank (CDB)
Chongqing-Guizhou Roads Development

(Leichong Expressway) PRC 120.00 - 79.30 CCB
Hefei-Xi‘an Railway PRC 300.00 Sa 1,221.70 CDB
Tianjin Wastewater Treatment and Water

Resources Protection PRC 130.00 = 87.80 CDB
Wind Power Development PRC 58.00 - 12.00 Global Environment Facility (GEF)

- = 9.40 Domestic banks, PRC
Calcutta Environmental Improvement IND 250.00 - 30.00? Department for International Development,
United Kingdom

Power Transmission Improvement (Sector) ND 250.00 - 16.30 Domestic banks, India
ae = 120.00 | Commercial banks under ADB's Partial Credit Guarantee

Farm Restructuring Sector Development

Program (Project Loan) KAZ 20.00 - 3.49 Domestic banks, Kazakhstan

Almaty-Bishkek Regional Road Rehabilitation KAZ 65.00 - 25.00 European Bank for Reconstruction and Development
- - 0.40% Transport Corridor Europe Caucasus Asia (TRACECA)

Almaty-Bishkek Regional Road Rehabilitation KGZ - 5.00 0.40? TRACECA
Decentralized Irrigation Development and

Management Sector LAO = 15.50 2.70° AFD
Rural Access Roads LAO - 25.00 5.00 | OPEC Fund for International Development

(OPEC Fund)

Second Financial Sector Reform Program MON - 15.00 32.00 International Development Association (IDA)
Melamchi Water Supply NEP - 120.00 80.00 IDA

- = 52.00 Japan Bank for International Cooperation (JBIC)
(official development assistance [ODA])

- - 18.00° Japan

- - 9.00 Nordic Development Fund (NDF)

- - 28.00? Norwegian Agency for Development Cooperation

a = 14.00 | OPEC Fund

- - 25.00 Swedish International Development Cooperation
Agency (Sida)

North-West Frontier Province Barani Area PAK - 52.00 14.80 International Fund for Agricultural Development
Development Phase II - - 1.20 Participating financial institutions, Pakistan
Small- and Medium-Size Enterprise Trade
Enhancement Finance PAK 150.00 = 150.00 | Commercial banks under ADB's Political Risk Guarantee
Grains Sector Development Program
(Program Loan) PHI 100.00 - 0.60° United States Agency for International Development

a Refers to a grant.

b Private sector loan without government guarantee.

c Consists of both a grant of $6 million and a contingent interest-free loan of $6 million.

Key: BAN (Bangladesh), CAM (Cambodia), PRC (People’s Republic of China), IND (India), KAZ (Kazakhstan), KGZ (Kyrgyz Republic), LAO (Lao People’s
Democratic Republic), MON (Mongolia), NEP (Nepal), PAK (Pakistan), and PHI (Philippines).220 ANNUAL REPORT 2000

Ce

CONTINUED

ADB Loan oece

Member OCR ADF  Cofinancing Source of Cofinancing

 

Infrastructure for Rural Productivity PHI 75.00 - 1.00 International Labour Organization
Enhancement Sector
North Luzon Expressway Rehabilitation and PHI 45.00 - 10.63 ABB Export Bank, Switzerland
Expansion? - - 30.00 | Compagnie Francaise d’ Assurance pour le Commerce
Exterieur (COFACE), France
- - 10.63 Credit Agricole, France
- - 10.63 Dai-Ichi Kangyo Bank, Japan
- - 10.63 Deutsche Genossenschaftsbank, Germany
- - 55.00 Export Finance and Insurance Corporation, Australia
- - 45.00 International Finance Corporation
- - 10.62 Indosuez, France
- - 10.62 Industrial Bank of Japan
- - 10.62 Sumitomo Bank, Japan
- - 10.62 Westdeutsche Landesbank, Germany
Pasig River Environmental Management and PHI 75.00 - 2.207 DANIDA
Rehabilitation Sector Development Program - - 0.50 United States Trade Development Agency
(Project Loan)
Technical Education and Skills Development — PHI 25.00 - 10.00 DANIDA
= = 8.00 NDF
= = 7.00 OPEC Fund
Microfinance and Employment PNG - 9.60 0.91 Australian Agency for International Development
(AusAID)
Provincial Towns Water Supply and Sanitation PNG - 15.34 1.80? AusAID
Rehabilitation of the Maritime Navigation
Aids System PNG 20.60 = 0.80? AusAID
Kelanitissa Power? SRI 26.00 = 52.00 Commercial banks under ADB's Political Risk Guarantee
Private Sector Development Program
(Subprogram 1!) SRI 15.00 85.00 1.007 Sida
Protected Area Management and Wildlife SRI - 12.00 10.20° GEF
Conservation s = 4.00° Netherlands
Secondary Education Modernization SRI - 50.00 7.00 NDF
Power Rehabilitation TAJ - 34.00 9.30 Islamic Development Bank
- - 6.00° Swiss Development Corporation
Road Rehabilitation TAI = 20.00 4.00 | OPEC Fund
Railway Modernization UZB 70.00 - 5.00 OPEC Fund
Senior Secondary Education UZB 57.00 - 57.00 JBIC (ODA)
Rural Health VIE - 68.30 0.507 United Nations Population Fund
- - 1.00? United Nations Children’s Fund
- - 0.30? World Health Organization
Tea and Fruit Development VIE - 40.20 4.90 Participating financial institutions, Viet Nam
Thu Duc Build-Operate-Transfer Water VIE 35.00 - 48.00 COFACE
Treatment? = = 15.00 — Export-Import Bank of Malaysia Berhad
TOTAL 2,016.60 706.54 2,966.04

a Refers to a grant.
b Private sector loan without government guarantee.

Key: PHI (Philippines), PNG (Papua New Guinea), SRI (Sri Lanka), TAJ (Tajikistan), UZB (Uzbekistan), and VIE (Viet Nam).Statistical Annex 221

ey

 

Table 8
PRIVATE SECTOR APPROVALS AND TOTAL PROJECT COSTS BY COUNTRY, 2000
($ million)
Total Total Project
oT ag ADB eee CL a ADB Cost/
Loan Sut s4 Funds Loan Approvals Fund Size
Bangladesh
AES Meghnaghat Power Limited* 50.00 - 50.00 20.00 70.00 300.00
China, People’s Republic of
Liberty New World China Enterprises = 25.00 25.00 = 25.00 300.00
Pakistan
Pakistan Export Finance Guarantee
Agency Limited” - 2.00 2.00 - 2.00 10.00
Philippines
Manila North Tollways Corporation 45.00 - 45.00 25.00 70.00 377.50
Samoa
Venture Capital Fund - 0.40 0.40 - 0.40 1.60
Sri Lanka
AES Kelanitissa (Private) Limited‘ 26.00 - 26.00 = 26.00 102.74
Thailand
Thailand Small- and Medium-Size Enterprises
Investment and Restructuring Fund - 25.00 25.00 - 25.00 100.00
Thailand Small and Medium Enterprise
Fund Management Co. - 0.25 0.25 - 0.25
Viet Nam
Lyonnaise Vietnam Water Company Limited 35.00 - 35.00 - 35.00 140.00
Regional
Asian Banking Fund - 25.00 25.00 - 25.00 300.00
Ankar Capital Management LLC - 0.50 0.50 - 0.50
TOTAL 156.00 78.15 234.15 45.00 279.15 1,631.84

Data not applicable.

a ADB also approved a political risk guarantee of $70 million.
b ADB also approved a public sector political risk guarantee of $150 million.
c ADB also approved a political risk guarantee of $52 million.

 

Table 9

PRIVATE SECTOR APPROVALS AND TOTAL PROJECT COSTS BY SECTOR, 2000

($ million)

Total Total
olin eee Cla ADB Project
Loan Norse stele Loan PV yee Cost

Infrastructure® 156.00 = 156.00 45.00 201.00 920.24
Investment Funds = 76.15 76.15 = 76.15 711.60
Financial Institutions? - 2.00 2.00 = 2.00 =

Agriculture, Manufacturing
and Other Industries - = - = - 
TOTAL 156.00 78.15 234.15 45.00 279.15 1,631.84

- Data not applicable.

a ADB also approved two political risk guarantees totaling $122 million to two infrastructure projects.
b ADB also approved a public sector political risk guarantee of $150 million for small- and medium-size enterprise trade enhancement finance.222 ANNUAL REPORT 2000

Table 10

Ce ee

PRIVATE SECTOR LOAN AND EQUITY INVESTMENT APPROVALS BY YEAR, 1987-2000

(amounts in $ million)

No. of

Projects*

1WeF-T)

Equity
Investment?

Total ADB

aol

Cerone) cla

Loan

Total ADB

Approvals *

 

1987 a,
1988 12
1989 16
1990 17
1991 10
1992 4
1993 9
1994 9
1995 8
1996 8
1997 6
1998 a
1999 4
2000° 11

— Data not applicable.
Net of cancellations.

oo

million for public sector operations.

Table 11

20.50
58.00
95.70
78.85
156.80
50.00
182.10

68.00
123.50
45.00
136.12
146.50
156.00

27.61
35.67
67.59
35.94
20.52

5.42
20.70
48.70
99.41
97.15
59.50
42.44

7.40
T3\\5

Includes equity investments, lines of equity, and equity underwritings.
¢ In 2000, ADB also approved three political risk guarantees: two totaling $122 million in support of private sector operations and one amounting to $150

48.11

93.67
163.29
114.79
VT32:

55.42
202.80

48.60
167.41
220.65
104.50
178.56
153.90
234.15

CUMULATIVE PRIVATE SECTOR APPROVALS BY COUNTRY, 1983-2000

(amounts in $ million)

Loan

Equity

Investment

Total ADB

aire ky

5.00

S110
24.00

81.50
19.30

5.83
191.50

151.08
187.50
45.00

eee CI a

Loan

Dart

93.67
214.39
138.79
V3 2:
136.92
222.10
48.60
173.24
412.15
104.50
329.64
341.40
21915

Total ADB

Approvals *

 

No. of
Projects*
Bangladesh 5
Bhutan 1
China, People’s Rep. of i
India 20
Indonesia fi
Korea, Rep. of 4
Malaysia 1
Nepal 4
Pakistan 22
Philippines 19
Samoa 9
Sri Lanka 7
Thailand 2
Viet Nam 1
Regional 21
TOTAL 134

— Data not applicable.
a Net of cancellations.

it7.20'

116.50
160.70
82.00

49.55
241.80
282.32

72.00

31.46

65.00
105.00

1,323.53

14.46
0.53
72.30
105.80
26.65
8.96
2.00
3.26
30.62
36.85
0.40
13.22
52.07

291.87

658.98

b Includes equity investments, lines of equity, and equity underwritings.

c In 2000, ADB also approved three political risk guarantees: two totaling $122 million in support of private sector operations and one amounting to $150

million for public sector operations.

131.66
0.53
188.80
266.50
108.65
8.96
2.00
52.81
272.42
319.17
0.40
85.22
83.53
65.00
396.87

1,982.51

20.00
171.50

105.00
63.50

5.83
129.90
233.58

26.50

755.81

151.62
0.53
357.30
349.77
164.97
7.07
0.18
57.62
377.85
548.49
0.40
83.41
77.09
91.50
396.87

2,738.31°Table 12

LOAN DISBURSEMENTS, 1999 AND 2000

(amounts in $ thousand)

 

 

Statistical Annex

% of

Total
Disbursements

Project?
Nondevelopment Finance Institution 1,562,939 42 824,353 74 2,387,292 49
Development Finance Institution 267,455 dT 5,187 - 272,642 6
Total Project Loans 1,830,394 49 829,540 74 2,659,934 55)
Program? 1,544,800 42 129,114 12 1,673,914 35
Sector‘ 271,811 7 155,175 14 426,986 2
Private Sector? 62,806 2 - - 62,806 1
TOTAL 3,709,811 100 = 1,113,829 100 4,823,640 100
% Change
2000 (2000/1999)
cml Chi % of Total
aed c1) Total DisburseOCR ADF ADF ADF Total
Project®
Nondevelopment Finance Institution 1,695,503 59 749,765 66 2,445,268 61 8 (9) 2,
Development Finance Institution 96,962 3 552 - 97,514 2 (64) (89) (64)
Total Project Loans 1,792,465 62 750,317 66 2,542,782 63 (2) (10) (4)
Program? 739,500 26 198,940 18 938,440 23 (52) 54 (44)
Sector‘ 291,052 10 185,791 16 476,843 12 A 20 12
Private Sector? 61,038 2 - - 61,038 2 (3) - (3)
TOTAL 2,884,055 100 1,135,048 100 4,019,103 100 (22) 2 (17)
— Data not applicable.
() Negative.

223

ee

a A project loan is a loan provided to finance specific projects. ADB uses development finance institutions in its developing member countries (DMCs) as
vehicles to finance small- to medium-sized projects in the private sector.

b A program loan is a loan provided to support DMCs’ efforts to improve the policy, institutional, and investment environment of sector development.
It helps meet short-term costs that policy adjustments entail.

c A sector loan is a loan provided to develop a specific sector or subsector. It finances a large number of subprojects in a single sector or subsector.

d Excludes equity investments.

 

Table 13

PROGRAM LOAN DISBURSEMENTS, 2000

($ million)

OCR ADF Ke}

Bangladesh - 37.78 37.78
Bhutan - 4.90 4.90
Cambodia - 13.50 13.50
India 151.50 = 151.50
Indonesia 270.00 - 270.00
Lao PDR = 11.26 11.26
Marshall Islands - 2275 2.75
Mongolia - 22 12.21
Nepal - 24.34 24.34
Pakistan 228.00 50.39 278.39
Philippines 70.00 - 70.00
Tajikistan - 9.15 9.15
Vanuatu = 4.80 4.80
Viet Nam 20.00 27.86 47.86
TOTAL 739.50 198.94 938.44

— Data not applicable.224 ANNUAL REPORT 2000

Ce

Table 14

NUMBER OF LOANS AND PROJECTS APPROVED AND UNDER ADMINISTRATION, PROJECT COMPLETION
REPORTS (PCRs) CIRCULATED, PROJECTS COMPLETED, LOANS CLOSED, AND PROJECT/PROGRAM
PERFORMANCE AUDIT REPORTS (PPARs) CIRCULATED

(as of 31 December 2000)

 

 

Cumulative (eT eas Cert iran (evr Cra Ceres Cumulative
No. of No. of No. of NoHo) d No. of No. of
Loans Effective Projects 1} TTTe (=x) Supplementary Cofinanced
Approved* Loans Approved? Loans Loans Projects

Afghanistan 9 8 8 - 1 2
Azerbaijan - - - - - Bangladesh 143 135 133 5 5 61
Bhutan 17 17 16 - - 5
Cambodia 17 14 16 - = 8
China, People’s Rep. of 85 78 83 - - 33
Cook Islands 11 11 11 - = 1
Fiji Islands 13 13 13 - 
Hong Kong, China 5 5) 5 - - India 65 58 55 1 - 18
Indonesia 254 248 228 17 2 53
Kazakhstan 13 10 8 2 - 2
Kiribati 6 6 6 - - 1
Korea, Rep. of 81 81 80 - = 8
Kyrgyz Republic 18 16 14 - - 6
Lao PDR 49 46 45 - 3 28
Malaysia 76 76 74 1 1 9
Maldives o 9 a - = 5
Marshall Islands 3 8 9 - - 4
Micronesia, Fed. States of 4 3 4 = - Mongolia 25 21 21 - - 5
Myanmar 32 32 28 2 2 12
Nauru 1 1 1 = = *
Nepal 99 94 88 1 9 40
Pakistan 492) 186 159 23 5 71
Papua New Guinea 53 50 42 10 - 11
Philippines 183 177 154 17 4 62
Samoa 28 26 24 = 4 9
Singapore 14 14 14 = = 2
Solomon Islands 16 15 15 - - 5
Sri Lanka 99 (555) 92 2 5 33
Taipei,China 12 2) 1.2) - = Tajikistan 5 3 5: - - 2
Thailand 83 83 79 2 2 36
Tonga 3! 13 13 - - 3
Turkmenistan - - = - = =
Tuvalu 1 1 1 - - Uzbekistan 8 5 7 1 = 2
Vanuatu 2 2 8 = 1 3
Viet Nam 43 37 38 3 - 15
Regional 5 3 6° 1 - TOTAL 1,803 1,717 1,624 88 44 557

— Nil or data not applicable.

a Includes special implementation assistance loans, special assistance, and private sector loans; excludes loans withdrawn by borrowers.

b Blended loans and multiloan projects are counted as one project; supplementary loans and special implementation assistance loans are not counted as separate projects.

c Includes projects/loans that have been approved but still awaiting effectivity, inactive loans, and fully disbursed private sector loans without government
guarantee but still under administration; excludes projects/loans exclusively financed from other sources.Statistical Annex 225

Ce

Corie nan (sy No. of No. of No. of No. of
No. of No. of No. of PCRs Projects Loans ie ity PPARs

Loans Under Projects Under Circulated/ Completed Closed Circulated Circulated
Administration® Administration*© Prepared OPAL in 2000 in 2000 in 2000

 

 

- - - - - - - Afghanistan
- - - - - - - Azerbaijan
37 35 86 4 9 4 2 Bangladesh
7 6 7 1 1 - 1 Bhutan
13 a3 f 1 2 - 1 Cambodia
48 46 30 6 9 7 2 China, People’s Rep. of
2 2 S 1 1 1 - Cook Islands
1 1 10 - - - - Fiji Islands
= = 5: = ~ = ss Hong Kong, China
40 25, 21 4 4 4 2 India
74 65 134 15 13 2 3 Indonesia
5 6 5 1 - Kazakhstan
1 |] 4 - - - - Kiribati
1 1 59 - = - = Korea, Rep. of
14 13 3 1 - 1 Kyrgyz Republic
20 20 22 5 = 3 1 Lao PDR
5 5 48 2 1 - Malaysia
2 3 6 = ~ = 2 Maldives
5 5 2 2 1 - Marshall Islands
3 3 1 - - 1 - Micronesia, Fed. States of
15 13 6 2, 2 3 1 Mongolia
= z 26 a a = = Myanmar
1 il = = ~ = “ Nauru
25 24 59 3 2 Nepal
51 47 98 13 8 7 2 Pakistan
14 13 26 2 1 - - Papua New Guinea
60 49 95 - 3 1 Philippines
3 3 19 ~ _ ~ - Samoa
= = 7 = = - = Singapore
2 2 13 2 1 - - Solomon Islands
29 28 55 4 3 7 2 Sri Lanka
1 - - - - Taipei,China

= 1 - - - Tajikistan

13 12 46 2 3 - Thailand
Az 2 1 - - Tonga

- - = = - = - Turkmenistan
1 1 - - - - Tuvalu
8 7 = - = - - Uzbekistan
3 3 5) 2 = = “ Vanuatu
29 28 7. 2 1 2 - Viet Nam
1 {| 2 = 1 “ Regional
545 493 928 87 65 51 22 TOTAL

d Projects which were physically completed in 2000.

e Includes the regional projects—Greater Mekong Subregion (GMS): Phnom Penh to Ho Chi Minh City Highway Project (Cambodia and Viet Nam loan
components); GMS: East-West Corridor Project (Lao PDR and Viet Nam loan components); and Almaty-Bishkek Regional Road Rehabilitation (Kazakhstan
and Kyrgyz Republic loan components).226 ANNUAL REPORT 2000

Ce

Table 15
AMOUNT OF LOANS APPROVED, CONTRACTS AWARDED, AND DISBURSEMENTS
(as of 31 December 2000; amounts in $ million)

 

Cet Eas
Cumulative Loan Cumulative Net Contracts Contracts
Amounts Approved? Effective Loans’“* | Awarded in 2000°%° Awarded >4¢

Afghanistan 95.10 27.90 - 34.21
Azerbaijan - - - Bangladesh 6,190.71 5,349.18 291.63 4,529.42
Bhutan 94.76 87.91 10.25 57.76
Cambodia 485.27 407.74 114.42 288.18
China, People’s Rep. of 10,297.50 8,672.45 757.90 6,158.90
Cook Islands 24.47 23:25; 0.61 24.57
Fiji Islands 161.10 153.47 1.20 116.27
Hong Kong, China 101.50 94.50 = 94.50
India 9,158.30 7,239.02 380.84 5,830.78
Indonesia 17,828.99 14,461.85 707.32 10,671.91
Kazakhstan 525.00 411.23 13.62 345.96
Kiribati 15.14 113925) 2.04 6.60
Korea, Rep. of 6,338.33 5,562.07 1.89 5,571.18
Kyrgyz Republic 452.20 407.41 9.18 282.25
Lao PDR 887.54 792.72 43.50 665.60
Malaysia 1,987.54 1,458.69 24.53 1,375.27
Maldives 55.18 54.47 7.49 42.72
Marshall Islands 59712 46.61 9.71 41.71
Micronesia, Fed. States of 43.12 33.44 5.55 29.40
Mongolia 469.42 413.10 36.36 340.48
Myanmar 530.86 411.83 = 418.77
Nauru 5.00 5.00 2.30
Nepal 1,855.68 1,397.84 48.28 1,236.48
Pakistan 10,511.24 9,174.83 384.84 7,508.76
Papua New Guinea 774.17 652.92 23.07 525.10
Philippines 7,889.27 6,664.30 176.59 4,621.87
Samoa 107.92 100.89 0.06 94.51
Singapore 181.08 144.44 - 130.22
Solomon Islands O31 54.30 = 5377
Sri Lanka 2,597.46 2,185.58 S777: 1,743.51
Taipei, China 100.39 91.14 = 90.28
Tajikistan 99.00 42.72 13.74 23.61
Thailand 5,348.07 4,465.73 29.19 4,053.13
Tonga 42.89 41.47 0.74 46.96
Turkmenistan - - - Tuvalu 4.00 4.02 - 2.80
Uzbekistan 387.00 208.87 49.69 102.18
Vanuatu 51.25 49.06 9.54 46.40
Viet Nam 2,099.18 1,718.39 176.26 1,029.44
Regional? 105.00 105.00 - TOTAL 88,039.05 73,228.62 3,387.79 58,237.76

— Data not applicable.
a Includes special assistance loans and private sector loans but excludes loans withdrawn by the borrower. The US dollar equivalent is in accordance with
the exchange rate prevailing within ADB at the time of loan signing.
b Totals may not add because of rounding.
c Net refers to cancellation and refund of unused loan amounts.
d The US dollar equivalent is in accordance with the exchange rate prevailing in ADB on 31 December 2000. The cumulative contracts awarded exceed the
net effective loan amounts due to the following reasons:
(i) for countries without active loans, the base contract amount of loans that were closed prior to computerization does not reflect the adjustment with
regard to procurement data, e.g., Afghanistan; and
(ii) for countries with active loans, the contract amount inputted is the percentage of ADB-financed portion and each contract amount was adjusted upon
completion of disbursement.Statistical Annex 227

ee

 

% of Cumulative Po) OTT ELA)
Contracts Awarded Pee
to Cumulative Net Disbursements Cumulative to Cumulative Net
Tai ae loko Famed Disbursements?* Effective Loans
122.6 - 27.90 100.0 Afghanistan
- - - - Azerbaijan
84.7 264.87 4,460.72 83.4 Bangladesh
65.7 6.86 54.10 61.5 Bhutan
70.7 50.83 203.08 49.8 Cambodia
71.0 847.52 5,852.83 67.5 China, People’s Rep. of
105.7 0.39 22.16 95.3 Cook Islands
75.8 4.65 119.20 77.7 Fiji Islands
100.0 - 94.50 100.0 Hong Kong, China
80.5 486.98 5,540.28 76.5 India
73.8 748.38 11,375.04 78.7 Indonesia
84.1 28.08 340.25 82.7 Kazakhstan
49.8 1.07 4.83 36.5 Kiribati
100.2 1.65 5,558.71 69.9) Korea, Rep. of
69.3 21.36 256.37 62.9 Kyrgyz Republic
84.0 51.01 615.61 77.7 Lao PDR
94.3 48.72 1,351.68 92.7 Malaysia
78.4 1.30 36.10 66.3 Maldives
89.5 9.77 39.84 85.5 Marshall Islands
87.9 4.40 27.34 81.7 Micronesia, Fed. States of
82.4 32.88 321.89 a9 Mongolia
101.7 = 411.83 100.0 Myanmar
46.0 ~ 2.30 46.0 Nauru
88.5 99.63 1,252.54 89.6 Nepal
81.8 522.59 7,848.89 85.5 Pakistan
80.4 13.01 520.78 19.3) Papua New Guinea
69.4 228.07 4,916.77 73.8 Philippines
93.7) 0.26 90.92 90.1 Samoa
90.2 - 144.44 100.0 Singapore
99.0 0.45 54.07 99.6 Solomon Islands
79.8 81.03 1,682.07 77.0 Sri Lanka
9901 - 91.14 100.0 Taipei,China
55.3 12.32 2219 51.9) Tajikistan
90.8 130.53 3,881.64 86.9 Thailand
1132 2.90 40.95 98.7 Tonga
= - - - Turkmenistan
69.6 - 2.80 69.6 Tuvalu
48.9 60.90 78.83 37a Uzbekistan
94.6 10.56 45.67 9311 Vanuatu
59.9) 237.45 813.76 47.4 Viet Nam
- 8.70 90.08 85.8 Regional 9
49.5 4 019.10 58,294.10 79.6 TOTAL

 

e Excludes private sector loans without government guarantee.

f The cumulative disbursements may exceed the cumulative contracts awarded due to disbursed amount without procurement contract summary sheet,
e.g., interest during construction, contingencies, and private sector loans which do not require procurement.

g A private sector loan to Asian Finance and Investment Corporation Ltd.228 ANNUAL REPORT 2000

Ce ee

Table 16
DISTRIBUTION OF CONTRACTS AWARDED BY COUNTRY OF ORIGIN,?
PROJECT AND PROGRAM LOANS COMBINED—ORDINARY CAPITAL RESOURCES

1967-1976 1977-1986 i} Veal 1997-2000
Goods, Related Ceforefe Cam CED Ccte} Ccfelole CALC Goods, Related

Services, and Consulting Services, and Consulting Services, and Consulting Services, and Consulting
Civil Works (%) Services (%) Civil Works (%) Services (%) Civil Works (%) Services (%) Civil Works (%) Services (%)

 

 

Afghanistan 0.00 0.00 0.00 0.00 0.00 0.00 0.00 0.00
Australia (feo 3.511 1.43 2.46 1.90 4.09 1.54 11.16
Austria 2.38 0.84 0.57 0.30 0.28 0.31 0.45 0.02
Azerbaijan 0.00 0.00 0.00 0.00 0.00 0.00 0.00 0.00
Bangladesh 0.00 0.00 0.00 0.03 0.00 0.00 0.08 0.00
Belgium 0.22 0.53 0.49 0.04 0.48 0.00 0.24 0.00
Bhutan 0.00 0.00 0.00 0.00 0.00 0.00 0.00 0.00
Cambodia 0.00 0.00 0.00 0.00 0.00 0.00 0.04 0.00
Canada 2.19 229 0.91 6.79 0.81 4.48 0.58 2.46
China, People’s Rep. of 0.00 0.00 0.00 0.00 9.39 0.00 17.02 0.00
Cook Islands 0.00 0.00 0.00 0.00 0.00 0.00 0.00 0.00
Denmark 0.13 1.94 0.29 2.91) 0.15 1.89 0.26 1.56
Fiji Islands 0.09 0.00 0.24 0.00 0.16 0.03 0.03 0.00
Finland 0.05 0.00 0.04 0.31 0.47 0.32 0.19 0.17
France 3.78 6.05 2.02 2.98 227, 4.39 1.33) 6.89
Germany Tal 10.36 4.79 4.34 5.66 6.21 3.14 2.31
Hong Kong, China 0.60 0.00 1.65 0.47 nag, 0.08 0.53 1.18
India 1.45 235 0.67 0.34 9:97, 1.29 9.14 Jol
Indonesia 0.00 0.00 8.54 9.58 17.36 29.08 13.10 18.20
Italy 3.36 11.06 1.35: 4.08 3.82 22h 1.06 3.07
Japan 42.33 7.33 22.82 12.58 11.63 TEAL 6.83 aniZ)
Kazakhstan 0.00 0.00 0.00 0.00 0.00 0.00 0.45 0.03
Kiribati 0.00 0.00 0.00 0.00 0.00 0.00 0.00 0.00
Korea, Rep. of 9.67 1:31 16.74 4.06 6.40 0.79 15:25: 1.09
Kyrgyz Republic 0.00 0.00 0.00 0.00 0.01 0.00 0.02 0.00
Lao PDR 0.00 0.00 0.00 0.00 0.00 0.00 0.00 0.00
Malaysia 3.32 0.17 4.86 0.88 3.42 1.20 2.82 0.19
Maldives 0.00 0.00 0.00 0.00 0.01 0.00 0.00 0.00
Marshall Islands 0.00 0.00 0.00 0.00 0.00 0.00 0.00 0.00
Micronesia, Fed. States of 0.00 0.00 0.00 0.00 0.00 0.00 0.00 0.00
Mongolia 0.00 0.00 0.00 0.00 0.00 0.00 0.00 0.00
Myanmar 0.00 0.00 0.00 0.00 0.01 0.00 0.02 0.00
Nauru 0.00 0.00 0.00 0.00 0.00 0.00 0.02 0.00
Nepal 0.00 0.00 0.00 0.00 0.00 0.00 0.01 0.00
Netherlands 247, 2.20 0.90 2.60 0.61 5.60 0.45 4.93
New Zealand 0.17 1.42 0.42 1.46 0.09 0.17 0.08 1.23
Norway 0.15 0.00 0.03 0.25 0.06 0.00 0.03 1.34
Pakistan 0.01 0.00 0.57 0.04 3.02 0.37 2.33 0.00
Papua New Guinea 0.00 0.00 0.25 0.07 0.27 0.19 0.26 0.06
Philippines 1.14 0.94 8.43 1.59) 3.36 4.14 1.23: 6.57
Samoa 0.00 0.00 0.00 0.00 0.00 0.00 0.00 0.00
Singapore 0.56 0.00 1253 0.32 1.56 0.12 2.32) 2.52)
Solomon Islands 0.00 0.00 0.00 0.00 0.00 0.00 0.01 0.00
Spain 0.00 0.00 0.00 0.00 0.19 0.00 0.18 0.00
Sri Lanka 0.00 0.00 0.00 0.03 0.01 0.02 0.01 0.01
Sweden 0.57 0.13 0.54 0.04 0.81 0.15 0.26 0.30
Switzerland 1.91 1.07 jee 5.86 1.69 6.19 0.50 53
Taipei,China 1.77 0.09 1.70 3.20 0.75 1.01 0.68 1.49
Tajikistan 0.00 0.00 0.00 0.00 0.00 0.00 0.00 0.00
Thailand 2.28 0.00 6.94 0.09 3.48 1.64 3.20 2.14
Tonga 0.00 0.00 0.00 0.00 0.00 0.00 0.00 0.00
Turkey 0.00 0.00 0.00 0.00 0.19 0.00 0.11 0.00
Turkmenistan 0.00 0.00 0.00 0.00 0.00 0.00 0.00 0.00
Tuvalu 0.00 0.00 0.00 0.00 0.00 0.00 0.00 0.00
United Kingdom 4.03 3.61 2.76 11.08 1.53 6.90 1.66 6.30
United States 6.94 41.40 7.01 21.26 6.55 9.76 6.69 12.36
Uzbekistan 0.00 0.00 0.00 0.00 0.02 0.00 0.41 0.29
Vanuatu 0.00 0.00 0.00 0.00 0.40 0.00 0.00 0.00
Viet Nam 0.00 0.00 0.00 0.00 0.04 0.00 0.09 0.00
Regional 0.00 0.00 0.00 0.00 0.00 0.00 5.37 0.00
International Organizations 0.00 0.00 0.00 0.00 0.00 0.00 0.00 0.00
TOTAL 100.00 100.00 100.00 100.00 100.00 100.00 100.00 100.00
TOTAL VALUE ($ million) 1,151.81 65.59 5,006.38 327.46 17,780.48 825.74 14,943.24 350.55

a Represents the country of origin where the goods are mined, produced, grown, and manufactured, based on US dollar value equivalent of contract.Statistical Annex 229

ee ee

Table 17
DISTRIBUTION OF CONTRACTS AWARDED BY COUNTRY OF ORIGIN,?
PROJECT AND PROGRAM LOANS COMBINED—ASIAN DEVELOPMENT FUND

1967-1976 1977-1986 1987-1996 1997-2000
Goods, Related Goods, Related Goods, Related Cefolete Cam EV Cte}

Services, and Consulting Services, and Consulting Services, and Consulting Services, and Consulting
Civil Works (%) Services (%) Civil Works (%) Services (%) Civil Works (%) Services (%) Civil Works (%) Services (%)

 

 

Afghanistan 0.00 0.00 0.37 0.00 0.00 0.00 0.00 0.00
Australia 4.89 6.10 0.83 3.75 1.18 5.64 0.82 7.09
Austria 0.12 0.00 0.34 0.00 0.16 0.00 0.36 0.01
Azerbaijan 0.00 0.00 0.00 0.00 0.00 0.00 0.00 0.00
Bangladesh 0.20 0.00 5.80 0.94 14.03 3.73 14.78 4.66
Belgium 0.18 0.00 0.58 0.05 0.36 0.00 0.04 0.03
Bhutan 0.00 0.00 0.00 0.00 0.18 0.01 0.22 0.00
Cambodia 0.00 0.00 0.00 0.00 0.31 0.00 1.50 0.06
Canada 0.61 18.30 0.51 7:39) 0.40 344 0.33 6.82
China, People’s Rep. of 0.00 0.00 0.00 0.00 5.68 0.00 6.11 0.01
Cook Islands 0.00 0.00 0.04 0.00 0.05 0.01 0.03 0.13
Denmark 0.02 0.93 0.79 0.00 0.33 1.68 0.47 3.15)
Fiji Islands 0.12 0.00 0.05 0.00 0.02 0.02 0.07 0.00
Finland 0.01 0.00 0.07 1.34 0.18 0.20 0.21 213)
France 0.13 0.00 1.37 257) 1.43 4.01 2.20 6.30
Germany 14.61 22.63 5.08 1.68 3.69 rss se 5.44
Hong Kong, China 0.27 0.00 0.74 0.00 0.83 0.00 0.31 0.00
India 4.42 1.63 6.30 9.30 2.27 1.84 2.69 0.33
Indonesia 0.00 0.00 1.14 1.85 3.49 4.70 ZaF 0.93
Italy 5.68 5.49 275 0.82 1.68 2.94 2.16 0.06
Japan 38.73 21.17 25.35: 15.18 5.47 3.56 3.49 10.40
Kazakhstan 0.00 0.00 0.00 0.00 0.32 0.00 0.69 0.19
Kiribati 0.00 0.00 0.00 0.00 0.01 0.00 0.00 0.00
Korea, Rep. of 5.66 1.84 5.31 2.01 6.79 1.70 5.58 0.00
Kyrgyz Republic 0.00 0.00 0.00 0.00 0.44 0.00 0.92 0.38
Lao PDR 0.00 0.00 0.05 0.00 0.79 0.08 0.72 1.03
Malaysia 0.57 2.56 0.36 0.54 1.02 0.00 0.98 0.00
Maldives 0.00 0.00 0.02 0.00 0.00 0.00 0.01 0.00
Marshall Islands 0.00 0.00 0.00 0.00 0.06 0.00 0.18 0.12
Micronesia, Fed. States of 0.00 0.00 0.00 0.00 0.00 0.00 0.23 0.00
Mongolia 0.00 0.00 0.00 0.00 0.14 0.00 0.33 0.18
Myanmar 0.00 0.00 0.78 0.00 0.13 0.00 0.01 0.00
Nauru 0.00 0.00 0.00 0.00 0.00 0.00 0.00 0.00
Nepal 0.82 0.00 2.28 0.50 3.27 1.16 2.72 1.99)
Netherlands 1.68 5.57 1.22 2.22 1.61 5.22 0.35 2.90
New Zealand 0.56 2.46 0.81 2.00 0.46 3.48 0.49 1.26
Norway 0.05 0.00 0.02 0.57 0.36 0.28 0.01 1.26
Pakistan 0.00 0.00 4.76 0.47 15.57 orgil 13.20 5.64
Papua New Guinea 2.60 0.00 1.52 0.19 1.16 0.39 0.29 0.17
Philippines 0.14 1.10 2.74 2.83 4.85 5.04 2.48 3.68
Samoa 0.09 0.00 0.28 0.07 0.06 0.07 0.02 0.00
Singapore 4.83 0.00 1.85 0.11 4.02 0.16 3.67 0.22
Solomon Islands 0.00 0.00 0.28 0.09 0.10 0.00 0.38 0.00
Spain 0.00 0.00 0.00 0.00 0.06 0.00 0.08 0.00
Sri Lanka 0.00 0.12 3.11 0.26 4.38 1:39 5.26 1.18
Sweden 0.01 0.14 1.64 0.04 0.57 21g 0.16 0.97
Switzerland 0.33 0.00 2.64 6.18 0.93 2.58 0.40 0.41
Taipei,China 0.74 0.11 0.20 0.04 0.76 0.00 0.31 1.48
Tajikistan 0.00 0.00 0.00 0.00 0.00 0.00 0.51 0.33
Thailand 1.66 0.20 2.35) 0.05 0.94 0.01 1.90 0.00
Tonga 0.00 0.00 0.15 0.00 0.07 0.06 0.11 0.00
Turkey 0.00 0.00 0.00 0.00 0.30 0.00 4.20 0.20
Turkmenistan 0.00 0.00 0.00 0.00 0.00 0.00 0.00 0.00
Tuvalu 0.00 0.00 0.00 0.00 0.00 0.00 0.00 0.00
United Kingdom 6.96 2.83 6.44 21.11 2.02 17.81 0.59 13.81
United States 3.30 6.82 8.98 15.96 6.28 11.68 2.45 14.27
Uzbekistan 0.00 0.00 0.00 0.00 0.05 0.00 0.60 0.00
Vanuatu 0.00 0.00 0.01 0.00 0.04 0.00 0.19 0.01
Viet Nam 0.00 0.00 0.08 0.00 0.68 0.00 O72) 0.77
Regional 0.00 0.00 0.00 0.00 0.00 0.00 0.39 0.00
International Organizations 0.00 0.00 0.00 0.00 0.00 0.00 0.00 0.00
TOTAL 100.00 100.00 100.00 100.00 100.00 100.00 100.00 100.00
TOTAL VALUE ($ million) 260.83 27.69 2,447.95 155.37 9,288.56 568.07 4,136.35 334.24

a Represents the country of origin where the goods are mined, produced, grown, and manufactured, based on US dollar value equivalent of contract.230 ANNUAL REPORT 2000

Ce

Table 18
CONTRACTS AWARDED BY COUNTRY OF ORIGIN,? 2000
PROJECT LOANS—ORDINARY CAPITAL RESOURCES (amounts in $ million)

 

 

Goods, Related Bole

Services, and WA) Consulting % Contracts %

eA elacs Yes ed Ltda) Services PTS} Awarded pyre a ela
Afghanistan 0.00 0.00 0.00 0.00 0.00 0.00
Australia 4.09 0.27 15.43 16.74 19.52 7241
Austria 6.30 0.41 0.08 0.09 6.38 0.39
Azerbaijan 0.00 0.00 0.00 0.00 0.00 0.00
Bangladesh 0.00 0.00 0.00 0.00 0.00 0.00
Belgium 2.05 0.13 0.00 0.00 2.05 0:13,
Bhutan 0.00 0.00 0.00 0.00 0.00 0.00
Cambodia 0.00 0.00 0.00 0.00 0.00 0.00
Canada 3.45 0.23 3.33 3.61 6.78 0.42
China, People’s Rep. of 695.59 45.63 0.00 0.00 695.59 43.03
Cook Islands 0.00 0.00 0.00 0.00 0.00 0.00
Denmark 1.24 0.08 0.10 0.11 1.34 0.08
Fiji Islands 119, 0.08 0.00 0.00 119, 0.07
Finland 3.30 0.22 0.00 0.00 3.30 0.20
France 36.84 2.42 11.00 qeeS 3: 47.84 2.96
Germany 36.33 2.38 0.00 0.00 36.33 2:25)
Hong Kong, China 6.60 0.43 2.20 2:39) 8.80 0.54
India 155.29 10.19 10.58 11.48 165.87 10.26
Indonesia 320.60 21.03 12.51 13.57 333.11 20.61
Italy 16.78 1.10 2.79 3.02 19.56 1:24
Japan 19:57 1.28 0.00 0.00 19.57 1:21
Kazakhstan 2.83 0.19 0.10 0.10 2.93. 0.18
Kiribati 0.00 0.00 0.00 0.00 0.00 0.00
Korea, Rep. of 44.73 2.93 0.00 0.00 44.73 24,
Kyrgyz Republic 0.00 0.00 0.00 0.00 0.00 0.00
Lao PDR 0.00 0.00 0.00 0.00 0.00 0.00
Malaysia 26.50 1.74 0.02 0.02 26.51 1.64
Maldives 0.00 0.00 0.00 0.00 0.00 0.00
Marshall Islands 0.00 0.00 0.00 0.00 0.00 0.00
Micronesia, Fed. States of 0.00 0.00 0.00 0.00 0.00 0.00
Mongolia 0.00 0.00 0.00 0.00 0.00 0.00
Myanmar 0.00 0.00 0.00 0.00 0.00 0.00
Nauru 0.00 0.00 0.00 0.00 0.00 0.00
Nepal 0.00 0.00 0.00 0.00 0.00 0.00
Netherlands 5.49 0.36 0.42 0.45 5.91 0.37
New Zealand 2:39 0.16 1.30 1.41 3.69 0.23
Norway 0.04 0.00 0.00 0.00 0.04 0.00
Pakistan 0.00 0.00 0.00 0.00 0.00 0.00
Papua New Guinea 2.06 0.14 0.14 0.15 2.20 0.14
Philippines 48.22 3:16 2.54 2.76 50.76 3.14
Samoa 0.00 0.00 0.00 0.00 0.00 0.00
Singapore 21% 0.14 3:55) 3.85 5.71 0.35
Solomon Islands 0.00 0.00 0.00 0.00 0.00 0.00
Spain 4.92 0.32 0.00 0.00 4.92 0.30
Sri Lanka 0.00 0.00 0.00 0.00 0.00 0.00
Sweden 1.27 0.08 0.00 0.00 27 0.08
Switzerland 6.25 0.41 10.35 11.23 16.60 1.03
Taipei,China 2.66 0.17 0.00 0.00 2.66 0.16
Tajikistan 0.00 0.00 0.00 0.00 0.00 0.00
Thailand 12.36 0.81 0.00 0.00 12.36 0.76
Tonga 0.00 0.00 0.00 0.00 0.00 0.00
Turkey 1.17 0.08 0.00 0.00 1.17 0.07
Turkmenistan 0.00 0.00 0.00 0.00 0.00 0.00
Tuvalu 0.00 0.00 0.00 0.00 0.00 0.00
United Kingdom 12.16 0.80 6.92 7.50 19.07 1.18
United States 27.57 1.81 7.84 8.51 35.41 219)
Uzbekistan 10.35 0.68 1.00 1.08 11.35 0.70
Vanuatu 0.00 0.00 0.00 0.00 0.00 0.00
Viet Nam 0.00 0.00 0.00 0.00 0.00 0.00
Regional 2.03 0.13 0.00 0.00 2.03 0.13
International Organizations 0.00 0.00 0.00 0.00 0.00 0.00
TOTAL 1,524.37 100.00 92.19 100.00 1,616.56 100.00

a Represents the country of origin where the goods are mined, produced, grown, and manufactured, based on US dollar value equivalent of contract.
b Total may not add because of rounding.Statistical Annex 231

Ce ee

Table 19
CONTRACTS AWARDED BY COUNTRY OF ORIGIN,? 2000
PROJECT LOANS—ASIAN DEVELOPMENT FUND (amounts in $ million)

 

 

Goods, Related Total

Services, and WA) Consulting % Contracts %

Civil Works Pal elton) AT Tae) Distribution PEN ao ey Pye ee Lerten
Afghanistan 0.00 0.00 0.00 0.00 0.00 0.00
Australia 5.06 0.69 10.23 10.17 15.29 1.82
Austria 6.64 0.90 0.00 0.00 6.64 0.79
Azerbaijan 0.00 0.00 0.00 0.00 0.00 0.00
Bangladesh 148.03 20.08 3.26 3.24 151.29 18.06
Belgium 0.00 0.00 0.00 0.00 0.00 0.00
Bhutan 3.89 0.53 0.00 0.00 3.89 0.46
Cambodia 32.49 4.45 0.17 0.17 32.95 3.93)
Canada 0.52 0.07 0.02 0.02 0.53 0.06
China, People’s Rep. of 57.54 7.80 0.02 0.02 57.56 6.87
Cook Islands 0.31 0.04 0.03 0.02 0.34 0.04
Denmark 11.44 1,55) 2.36 2.34 13.80 1.65
Fiji Islands 0.00 0.00 0.00 0.00 0.00 0.00
Finland 0.21 0.03 0.21 0.20 0.42 0.05
France 8.78 119 0.00 0.00 8.78 1.05
Germany 7.40 1.00 4.56 4.53 11.95 1.43
Hong Kong, China 0.00 0.00 0.00 0.00 0.00 0.00
India 13.79 1.87 0.28 0.28 14.07 1.68
Indonesia 27.09 3.68 0.52 0.51 27.61 3.30
Italy 4:32 0.18 0.05 0.05 1.37 0.16
Japan 24.89 3.38 15.14 15.04 40.03 4.78
Kazakhstan 0.78 0.11 Ooi, 0.17 0.95 0.11
Kiribati 0.13 0.02 0.00 0.00 0.13 0.02
Korea, Rep. of 23.24 215) 0.00 0.00 23.24 257
Kyrgyz Republic 3.87 0.53 0.58 0.58 4.46 0.53
Lao PDR 6.53 0.89 3.09 3.07 9.61 115
Malaysia 5.59 0.76 0.00 0.00 5.59 0.67
Maldives 0.53 0.07 0.00 0.00 0.53, 0.06
Marshall Islands 2.28 0.31 0.31 0.31 2.59 0.31
Micronesia, Fed. States of 1.36 0.18 0.00 0.00 1.36 0.16
Mongolia 4.76 0.65 0.01 0.01 4.77 0.57
Myanmar 0.00 0.00 0.00 0.00 0.00 0.00
Nauru 0.00 0.00 0.00 0.00 0.00 0.00
Nepal 21.85 2.96 0.20 0.20 22.05 2.63
Netherlands 0.05 0.01 3.69 3.67 3.74 0.45
New Zealand 4.98 0.68 0.62 0.61 5.60 0.67
Norway 0.12 0.02 2.30 2.29 2.42 0.29
Pakistan 71.57 S71 7.18 TAS: 78.74 9.40
Papua New Guinea TAY 0.16 0.16 0.16 1.34 0.16
Philippines 24.77 3.36 4.24 4.21 29.01 3.46
Samoa 0.06 0.01 0.00 0.00 0.06 0.01
Singapore 2.86 0.39 0.00 0.00 2.86 0.34
Solomon Islands 0.00 0.00 0.00 0.00 0.00 0.00
Spain 0.24 0.03 0.00 0.00 0.24 0.03
Sri Lanka 42.74 5.80 2.16 215) 44.90 5.36
Sweden 0.72 0.10 0.67 0.67 1.39 0.17
Switzerland 3.04 0.41 0.00 0.00 3.04 0.36
Taipei,China 0.15 0.02 0.00 0.00 0.15 0.02
Tajikistan 1.44 0.20 1.09 1.08 2.53 0.30
Thailand 42.06 S71] 0.00 0.00 42.06 5.02
Tonga 0.33 0.04 0.00 0.00 0.33 0.04
Turkey 1.22 0.17 0.67 0.67 1.90 0.23
Turkmenistan 0.00 0.00 0.00 0.00 0.00 0.00
Tuvalu 0.00 0.00 0.00 0.00 0.00 0.00
United Kingdom 7.82 1.06 23.34 23.19 31.15 3.72
United States 10.83 1.47 13:23) 13.14 24.06 2.87
Uzbekistan 2.12 0.29 0.00 0.00 2.12 0.25
Vanuatu 0.33 0.05 0.04 0.04 0.37 0.04
Viet Nam 98.00 13:29 0.07 0.07 98.07 11.70
Regional 0.00 0.00 0.00 0.00 0.00 0.00
International Organizations 0.00 0.00 0.00 0.00 0.00 0.00
TOTAL 737.22 100.00 100.65 100.00 837.87 100.00

a Represents the country of origin where the goods are mined, produced, grown, and manufactured, based on US dollar value equivalent of contract.
b Total may not add because of rounding.232 ANNUAL REPORT 2000

Ce

Table 20
CONTRACTS AWARDED BY COUNTRY OF ORIGIN,? 2000
PROJECT LOANS—ORDINARY CAPITAL RESOURCES AND ASIAN DEVELOPMENT FUND COMBINED (amounts in $ million)

 

Goods, Related Total

Services, and WA) Consulting % Contracts %

eA olacs Distribution Services PTR} Awarded” pyre ea ela
Afghanistan 0.00 0.00 0.00 0.00 0.00 0.00
Australia oS 0.40 25.67 13.31 34.81 1.42
Austria 12.94 0.57 0.08 0.04 13.03 0.53
Azerbaijan 0.00 0.00 0.00 0.00 0.00 0.00
Bangladesh 148.03 6.55 3.26 1.69 151.29 6.16
Belgium 2.05 0.09 0.00 0.00 2.05 0.08
Bhutan 3.89 0.17 0.00 0.00 3.89 0.16
Cambodia 32,79 1.45 0.17 0.09 32.95 1.34
Canada 3.97) 0.18 3.35) 1.74 7.32 0.30
China, People’s Rep. of 153.13) 33.30 0.02 0.01 753.15 30.69
Cook Islands 0.31 0.01 0.03 0.01 0.34 0.01
Denmark 12.68 0.56 2.45 ey 15.14 0.62
Fiji Islands 119, 0.05 0.00 0.00 1:19 0.05
Finland 351 0.16 0.21 0.11 3.72 0.15
France 45.62 2.02 11.00 5.70 56.62 2:31
Germany 43.72 19 3: 4.56 2236) 48.28 itey)
Hong Kong, China 6.60 0.29 2.20 1.14 8.80 0.36
India 169.08 748 10.86 5.63 179.94 133
Indonesia 347.69 15:37 13.02 6.75 360.72 14.70
Italy 18.10 0.80 2.83 1.47 20.93 0.85
Japan 44.45 197) 15.14 7.85 59.59 2.43
Kazakhstan 3.61 0.16 0.27 0.14 3.88 0.16
Kiribati 0.13 0.01 0.00 0.00 0.13 0.01
Korea, Rep. of 67.97 3.01 0.00 0.00 67.97 254,
Kyrgyz Republic 3.87 0.17 0.58 0.30 4.46 0.18
Lao PDR 6.53 0.29 3.09 1.60 9.61 0.39
Malaysia 32.08 1.42 0.02 0.01 32.10 ies
Maldives 0.53 0.02 0.00 0.00 0.53 0.02
Marshall Islands 2.28 0.10 0.31 0.16 2.59 0.11
Micronesia, Fed. States of 1.36 0.06 0.00 0.00 1.36 0.06
Mongolia 4.76 0.21 0.01 0.01 4.77 0.19
Myanmar 0.00 0.00 0.00 0.00 0.00 0.00
Nauru 0.00 0.00 0.00 0.00 0.00 0.00
Nepal 21.85 0.97 0.20 0.10 22.05 0.90
Netherlands 5.54 0.25 4.11 2.13 9.65 0.39
New Zealand Tat 0.33 a2 (HEE) 9.29 0.38
Norway 0.16 0.01 2.30 1219 2.46 0.10
Pakistan 71.57 3.16 7.18 372 78.74 3.21
Papua New Guinea 3.23 0.14 0.30 0.16 3.53 0.14
Philippines 72.99 3:23 6.78 3.52 79.77 3.25
Samoa 0.06 0.00 0.00 0.00 0.06 0.00
Singapore 5.02 0.22 3:55) 1.84 8.57 0.35
Solomon Islands 0.00 0.00 0.00 0.00 0.00 0.00
Spain 5.16 0.23 0.00 0.00 5.16 0.21
Sri Lanka 42.74 1.89 2.16 112 44.90 1.83
Sweden 1.99 0.09 0.67 0.35 2.66 0.11
Switzerland 9.30 0.41 10.35 sy: 19.65 0.80
Taipei,China 2.81 0.12 0.00 0.00 2.81 0.11
Tajikistan 1.44 0.06 1.09 0.57 2.53 0.10
Thailand 54.42 2.41 0.00 0.00 54.42 2.22
Tonga 0.33 0.01 0.00 0.00 0.33 0.01
Turkey 2.40 0.11 0.67 0.35 3.07 0.13
Turkmenistan 0.00 0.00 0.00 0.00 0.00 0.00
Tuvalu 0.00 0.00 0.00 0.00 0.00 0.00
United Kingdom 19.97 0.88 30.26 15.69 50.23 2.05
United States 38.40 1.70 21.07 10.93 59.47 2.42
Uzbekistan 12.47 0.55 1.00 0.52 13.47 0.55
Vanuatu 0.33 0.01 0.04 0.02 0.37 0.02
Viet Nam 98.00 4.33 0.07 0.04 98.07 4.00
Regional 2.03 0.09 0.00 0.00 2.03 0.08
International Organizations 0.00 0.00 0.00 0.00 0.00 0.00
TOTAL 2,261.60 100.00 192.83 100.00 2,454.43 100.00

a Represents the country of origin where the goods are mined, produced, grown, and manufactured, based on US dollar value equivalent of contract.
b Total may not add because of rounding.Statistical Annex 233

Ce

Table 21
ESTIMATES OF PAYMENT TO SUPPLYING COUNTRIES FOR FOREIGN PROCUREMENT
UNDER PROGRAM LENDING, 2000?

Ordinary Capital Resources (OCR) Asian Development Fund (ADF) Combined OCR and ADF

 

BST rela) % Distribution Rte % Distribution $ Million % Distribution
Afghanistan 0.00 0.00 0.00 0.00 0.00 0.00
Australia 25.95: 3.54 27 1.08 28.12 3.01
Austria dee 0.15 0.00 0.00 1:12: 0.12
Azerbaijan 0.00 0.00 0.00 0.00 0.00 0.00
Bangladesh 10.73 1.46 0.00 0.00 10.73 1.15
Belgium 4.43 0.60 0.00 0.00 4.43 0.47
Bhutan 0.36 0.05 0.00 0.00 0.36 0.04
Cambodia 5.05 0.69 0.00 0.00 5.05 0.54
Canada 199. 1.09 6.57 3.28 14.57 1.56
China, People’s Rep. of 21.46 2.93 7.03 Sr5il 28.49 3.05
Cook Islands 0.00 0.00 0.00 0.00 0.00 0.00
Denmark 1.44 0.20 2.713, 1.36 4.17 0.45
Fiji Islands 0.00 0.00 0.00 0.00 0.00 0.00
Finland 3.29 0.45 0.00 0.00 3.29 0.35
France 20.66 2.82 2.66 1.33 23.32 2.50
Germany 26.76 3.65 1.60 0.80 28.35 3.04
Hong Kong, China 9.04 1.23 0.00 0.00 9.04 0.97
India 55.49 7.57 6.36 Soy 61.85 6.63
Indonesia 5.47 0.75 1535 0.67 6.81 0.73
Italy 11.78 1.61 0.00 0.00 11.78 1.26
Japan 66.82 9.12 2.37, 1.18 69.19 741
Kazakhstan 0.00 0.00 0.00 0.00 0.00 0.00
Kiribati 0.00 0.00 0.00 0.00 0.00 0.00
Korea, Rep. of 39.10 5.33 Arey 0.78 40.67 4.36
Kyrgyz Republic 0.00 0.00 0.00 0.00 0.00 0.00
Lao PDR 0.00 0.00 0.00 0.00 0.00 0.00
Malaysia 29.57 4.03 2 1.05 31.68 3.39
Maldives 0.00 0.00 0.00 0.00 0.00 0.00
Marshall Islands 0.00 0.00 0.00 0.00 0.00 0.00
Micronesia, Fed. States of 0.00 0.00 0.00 0.00 0.00 0.00
Mongolia 0.00 0.00 0.24 0.12 0.24 0.03
Myanmar 122) 0.17 0.00 0.00 1.22 0.13
Nauru 0.00 0.00 0.00 0.00 0.00 0.00
Nepal 0.72 0.10 0.00 0.00 0.72 0.08
Netherlands 5.42 0.74 1.02 0.51 6.44 0.69
New Zealand 2.28 0.31 0.00 0.00 2.28 0.24
Norway 1.87 0.26 0.00 0.00 1.87 0.20
Pakistan 109.25 14.91 50.39 25.15 159.65 17.10
Papua New Guinea 5.05 0.69 0.00 0.00 5.05 0.54
Philippines 47.34 6.46 0.00 0.00 47.34 5.07
Samoa 0.36 0.05 0.00 0.00 0.36 0.04
Singapore 47.59 6.49 53.05 26.48 100.64 10.78
Solomon Islands 1.80 0.25 0.00 0.00 1.80 0.19
Spain 4.79 0.65 0.06 0.03 4.85 0.52
Sri Lanka 0.63 0.09 0.00 0.00 0.63 0.07
Sweden 5.58 0.76 0.00 0.00 5.58 0.60
Switzerland 6.78 0.92 0.60 0.30 737 0.79
Taipei,China 11.16 1,52 0.14 0.07 11.30 1.21
Tajikistan 0.00 0.00 9.16 4.57 9.16 0.98
Thailand 15:92 2.17 13.06 6.52 28.98 3.11
Tonga 0.00 0.00 0.00 0.00 0.00 0.00
Turkey 1.51 0.21 0.00 0.00 1.51 0.16
Turkmenistan 0.00 0.00 0.00 0.00 0.00 0.00
Tuvalu 0.00 0.00 0.00 0.00 0.00 0.00
United Kingdom 16.08 2.19) 0.44 0.22 16.51 a7
United States 87.82 11.98 12.45 6.22 100.27 10.74
Uzbekistan 0.00 0.00 4.16 2.07 4.16 0.45
Vanuatu 0.36 0.05 4.80 2.40 5.16 0.55
Viet Nam 12.97 eee 117.55 5.76 24.52 2.63
Regional 0.00 0.00 2.75 1:37 2.15 0.29
International Organizations 0.00 0.00 0.00 0.00 0.00 0.00
TOTAL 733.00 100.00 200.36 100.00 933.36 100.00

Note: Figures may not add due to rounding.
a Estimates are based on import data drawn from the latest information available on borrowers’ trade statistics compiled by the International Monetary
Fund Direction of Trade Statistics.234 ANNUAL REPORT 2000

Ce

Table 22

CUMULATIVE CONTRACTS AWARDED BY COUNTRY OF ORIGIN,?
TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE OPERATIONS

(as of 31 December 2000; amounts in $ million)

 

ADB's Oy Administered oC) Japan oy Total a)
Own Distri- Brarid Distri- Special Raia Celie lacy ait
Resources Theta) vr To Ky bution Latta) OME ce 0)

Afghanistan 0.00 0.00 0.00 0.00 0.02 0.00 0.02 0.00
Australia 91.00 12.51 17.70 8.29 TE 12.45 181.46 11.89
Austria 0.15 0.02 0.00 0.00 0.00 0.00 0.15 0.01
Azerbaijan 0.00 0.00 0.00 0.00 0.00 0.00 0.00 0.00
Bangladesh 6.00 0.82 137 0.64 3.02 0.52 10.39 0.68
Belgium 292 0.37 0.71 0.33 0.43 0.07 3.86 0.25
Bhutan 0.06 0.01 0.02 0.01 0.02 0.00 0.09 0.01
Cambodia 0.37 0.05 0.00 0.00 0.02 0.00 0.40 0.03
Canada 52.36 7.20 26.47 12.40 46.38 7.93 125.21 8.21
China, People’s Rep. of 4.47 0.61 0.90 0.42 3.84 0.66 9.20 0.60
Cook Islands 0.01 0.00 0.00 0.00 0.00 0.00 0.01 0.00
Denmark 0128 1.27 1.82 0.85 13.87 237, 24.91 1.63
Fiji Islands 0.38 0.05 0.00 0.00 0.04 0.01 0.41 0.03
Finland 3075: 0.52 4.59 2.15 6.95 ill) 15.29 1.00
France 13.81 1.90 10.52 4.93 14.19 2.43 38.52 2.52
Germany 10.96 51 4.91 2.30 22.29 3.81 38.16 2.50
Hong Kong, China 11.26 155 1.25 0.58 14.49 2.48 27.00 UT
India 23.57 3.24 3.95 1.85 10.62 1.82 38.13 2.50
Indonesia O78 1.34 1.29 0.61 5.41 0.93 16.44 1.08
Italy 4.20 0.58 0.64 0.30 257, 0.44 742 0.49
Japan 15.93 209) 5.66 2.65 17.52 3.00 39.11 2.56
Kazakhstan 0.14 0.02 0.00 0.00 0.02 0.00 0.16 0.01
Kiribati 0.03 0.00 0.00 0.00 0.00 0.00 0.03 0.00
Korea, Rep. of 4.15 0.57 0.98 0.46 3.08 0.53 8.21 0.54
Kyrgyz Republic 0.15 0.02 0.00 0.00 0.02 0.00 0.18 0.01
Lao PDR 232 0.32 0.00 0.00 0.46 0.08 2.78 0.18
Malaysia 6.55 0.90 0.08 0.04 2.94 0.50 9.57 0.63
Maldives 0.05 0.01 0.00 0.00 0.00 0.00 0.06 0.00
Marshall Islands 0.07 0.01 0.00 0.00 0.00 0.00 0.07 0.00
Micronesia, Fed. States of 0.00 0.00 0.00 0.00 0.00 0.00 0.00 0.00
Mongolia 0.34 0.05 0.00 0.00 0.31 0.05 0.65 0.04
Myanmar 0.63 0.09 0.48 0.23 0.00 0.00 1.12 0.07
Nauru 0.00 0.00 0.00 0.00 0.00 0.00 0.00 0.00
Nepal 3:97, 0.55 0.89 0.42 1.15 0.20 6.01 0.39
Netherlands 1713 2:35) 18.77 8.79 21.61 3.70 57.51 3.77
New Zealand 40.45 5.56 3.64 71 39.56 6.77 83.66 5.48
Norway 2.34 0.32 3.16 1.48 3.20 0.55 8.70 0.57
Pakistan 7.16 0.98 0.17 0.08 1.39 0.24 8.72 0.57
Papua New Guinea 0.71 0.10 0.00 0.00 0.00 0.00 0.71 0.05
Philippines 43.87 6.03 9:29; 4.35 17.87 3.06 71.03 4.66
Samoa 0.56 0.08 0.00 0.00 0.85 0.15 1.42 0.09
Singapore 10.44 1.44 0.00 0.00 5.11 0.87 15.55 1.02
Solomon Islands 0.41 0.06 0.00 0.00 0.00 0.00 0.41 0.03
Spain 0.49 0.07 1,29: 0.60 0.71 0.12 2.50 0.16
Sri Lanka 8.75 1.20 1.06 0.50 2.43 0.42 12.24 0.80
Sweden 4.59 0.63 2.85 1.34 4.99 0.85 12.43 0.81
Switzerland 7.91 1.09 4.65 2.18 8.47 1.45 21.03 1.38
Taipei, China 1.06 0.15 0.07 0.03 2.03 0.35 3.16 0.21
Tajikistan 0.04 0.01 0.00 0.00 0.01 0.00 0.05 0.00
Thailand 7.53 1.03 1.89 0.89 7.81 1.34 17.23 Ad3)
Tonga 0.18 0.02 0.00 0.00 0.00 0.00 0.18 0.01
Turkey 0.09 0.01 0.08 0.04 0.00 0.00 0.18 0.01
Turkmenistan 0.00 0.00 0.00 0.00 0.00 0.00 0.00 0.00
Tuvalu 0.04 0.01 0.00 0.00 0.00 0.00 0.04 0.00
United Kingdom 110.77 15.23 36.32 17.01 95.46 16.32 242.54 15.90
United States 158.86 21.84 41.88 19.62 122.83 21.01 323.57 21.21
Uzbekistan 0.05 0.01 0.02 0.01 0.02 0.00 0.09 0.01
Vanuatu 0.72 0.10 0.00 0.00 0.93 0.16 1.65 0.11
Viet Nam 1.29 0.18 0.03 0.02 1.62 0.28 2.95 0.19
Regional 0.48 0.07 0.00 0.00 0.52 0.09 1.00 0.07
International Organizations 23.23 3.19 4.07 1.91 4.90 0.84 32.19 244
TOTAL 722-5) 100.00 213.48 100.00 584.74 100.00 1,525.74 100.00

Note: Figures may not add due to rounding.
a Represents the country of origin where the goods are mined, produced, grown, and manufactured, based on US dollar value equivalent of contract.Statistical Annex 235

ey

Table 23
CONTRACTS AWARDED BY COUNTRY OF ORIGIN,? 1998-2000
TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE OPERATIONS (amounts in $ million)

 

 

Afghanistan 0.00 0.00 0.00 0.00 0.00 0.00
Australia 16.68 12.32 16.38 13.26 20.99 13.54
Austria 0.00 0.00 0.00 0.00 0.00 0.00
Azerbaijan 0.00 0.00 0.00 0.00 0.00 0.00
Bangladesh 0.94 0.69 0.40 0.32 1.43 0.92
Belgium 0.01 0.00 0.40 0.32 0.13 0.08
Bhutan 0.02 0.01 0.03 0.02 0.02 0.01
Cambodia 0.03 0.02 0.03 0.02 0.07 0.04
Canada 9.76 721 7.31 5.92 12.13 7.82
China, People’s Rep. of 2.76 2.04 1.07 0.86 1.28 0.83
Cook Islands 0.00 0.00 0.00 0.00 0.01 0.01
Denmark 3.22 2.38 0.14 0.11 1.84 1.18
Fiji Islands 0.01 0.01 0.00 0.00 0.03 0.02
Finland 2015, 1.59, 0.57 0.46 1.54 0.99
France 0.59 0.43 3.54 2.86 0.22 0.14
Germany 2.56 1.89 3.20 2259, 6.45 4.16
Hong Kong, China 3.38 2.50 0.92 0.74 4.61 2.97
India 3.26 2.40 2.43 1.97 1.91 1.23
Indonesia 0.55 0.41 1.04 0.84 0.68 0.44
Italy TA 0.87 0.48 0.39 0.95 0.61
Japan 219 2.06 3.48 2.81 2.64 1.70
Kazakhstan 0.01 0.01 0.01 0.01 0.02 0.01
Kiribati 0.00 0.00 0.03 0.02 0.00 0.00
Korea, Rep. of 0.35 0.25 0.28 0.23 0.12 0.08
Kyrgyz Republic 0.01 0.01 0.04 0.03 0.05 0.03
Lao PDR 0.05 0.04 0.12 0.09 2.01 1.30
Malaysia 0.30 0.22 133 1.07 0.62 0.40
Maldives 0.01 0.01 0.00 0.00 0.03 0.02
Marshall Islands 0.06 0.04 0.02 0.01 0.00 0.00
Micronesia, Fed. States of 0.00 0.00 0.00 0.00 0.00 0.00
Mongolia 0.04 0.03 0.06 0.05 0.17 0.11
Myanmar 0.01 0.01 0.15 0.12 0.09 0.06
Nauru 0.00 0.00 0.00 0.00 0.00 0.00
Nepal 0.39 0.29 0.23 0.19 0.32 0.20
Netherlands 8.60 6.35 237) 1.92 11.29 7.28
New Zealand 9.04 6.67 12.07 ot 6.89 4.44
Norway 0.13 0.10 0.20 0.16 0.69 0.45
Pakistan 0.37 0.27 0.84 0.68 0.52 0.34
Papua New Guinea 0.19 0.14 0.02 0.02 0.13 0.08
Philippines 8.65 6.38 5.43 4.39 8.68 5.60
Samoa 0.00 0.00 0.02 0.02 0.34 0.22
Singapore 0.56 0.42 1.60 1.30 1.15 0.74
Solomon Islands 0.01 0.01 0.21 0.17 0.18 0.12
Spain 0.00 0.00 0.02 0.02 0.00 0.00
Sri Lanka 0.80 0.59 0.14 0.11 3.34 2.15
Sweden 1.21 0.89 0.10 0.08 0.63 0.41
Switzerland 0.99 0.73 1.41 1.14 2.18 1.40
Taipei, China 0.04 0.03 0.00 0.00 0.03 0.02
Tajikistan 0.01 0.01 0.01 0.01 0.00 0.00
Thailand 2.13 N57 2.36 1.91 1.39 0.90
Tonga 0.00 0.00 0.00 0.00 0.00 0.00
Turkey 0.00 0.00 0.00 0.00 0.00 0.00
Turkmenistan 0.00 0.00 0.00 0.00 0.00 0.00
Tuvalu 0.00 0.00 0.00 0.00 0.04 0.02
United Kingdom 15.55 11.48 22.95) 18.57 19.22 12:39
United States 33.36 24.63 27.44 227211 35.90 23.15
Uzbekistan 0.02 0.02 0.04 0.03 0.02 0.01
Vanuatu 0.17 0.13 1.22 0.99 0.09 0.06
Viet Nam 0.13 0.10 0.91 0.73 1.50 0.97
Regional 0.00 0.00 0.50 0.40 0.48 0.31
International Organizations 2335; fez 0.04 0.03 0.01 0.01
TOTAL 135.45 100.00 23:53, 100.00 155.05 100.00

Note: Figures may not add due to rounding.
a Represents the country of origin where the goods are mined, produced, grown, and manufactured, based on US dollar value equivalent of contract.236 ANNUAL REPORT 2000

Ce

Table 24
TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE GRANTS BY COUNTRY AND REGIONAL ACTIVITIES,* 1967-2000, 1999, 2000
(amounts in $ thousand)

1967-2000

 

 

ADB Mg 7X eeg Other
No. Amount of) . Financing Financing Financing’ Sources
Afghanistan 16 2,565.70 0.14 - = = = = Azerbaijan - - - - - - - - Bangladesh 260 140,763.33 7.41 15 3,979.00 3,400.00 - 3,500.00 10,879.00
Bhutan 7A 26,525.15 1.40 5 550.00 1,650.00 - - 2,200.00
Cambodia 75 54,148.60 2.85 14 - 2,981.00 = 860.00 7,541.00
China, People’s Rep. of 352 183,166.05 9.64 28 5,338.00 14,592.00 = - 19,930.00
Cook Islands oe 7,495.00 0.39 - - - - - East Timor 12 4,942.90 0.26 - = - - - Fiji Islands 63 18,916.80 1.00 7 ~~ 2,466.50 - - - 2,466.50
India 129 63,326.86 3.33 11 6,655.00 - - 500.00 7,155.00
Indonesia 389 165,045.27 8.69 19 850.00 3,636.00 5,788.00 1,000.00 11,274.00
Kazakhstan 34 18,854.00 0.99 2 + 850.00 = 700.00 1,550.00
Kiribati 29 9,040.00 0.48 1 861.00 = = = 861.00
Korea, Rep. of 33 5,010.15 0.26 - - - - - Kyrgyz Republic 42 26,040.50 1.37 6 2,322.50 600.00 = = 2,922.50
Lao PDR 174 83,517.78 4.40 11 1,270.00 4,040.00 = - 5,910.00
Malaysia 92 25,202.30 1.33 = = = = = Maldives 38 13,478.00 0.71 3 995.00 810.00 = - 1,805.00
Marshall Islands 36 14,527.00 0.76 2 600.00 - - - 600.00
Micronesia, Fed. States of 29 18,352.00 0.97 5 1,300.00 - - - 1,300.00
Mongolia 92 45,970.65 2.42 8 2,201.00 1,920.00 = - 4,121.00
Myanmar 38 10,716.00 0.56 = = = = = =
Nauru 5 1,244.00 0.07 2 244.00 - - - 244.00
Nepal 214 96,569.70 5.08 10 2,060.00 2,300.00 = - 4,360.00
Pakistan 211 85,477.40 4.50 7 1,800.00 300.00 = - 2,100.00
Papua New Guinea 109 35,001.60 1.84 7 2,508.00 1,081.00 = - 3,589.00
Philippines 2739 1127594.25 5:93 10 4,650.00 1,000.00 1,690.00 - 7,340.00
Samoa 66 17,801.50 0.94 5 1,290.00 = = = 1,290.00
Singapore 2 577.42 0.03 - - - - - =
Solomon Islands 51 10,900.24 0.57 7 990.00 = = 150.00 1,140.00
Sri Lanka 181 70,284.60 3.70 12 4,400.00 3,530.00 = - 7,930.00
Taipei,China 1 100.00 0.01 = - = = = Tajikistan 19 10,340.00 0.54 7 1,045.00 2,795.00 = - 3,840.00
Thailand 133 49,028.60 2.58 5 2,650.00 - 3,000.00 600.00 6,250.00
Tonga 43 10,776.50 0.57 - - - = - Turkmenistan = - = = - = = = Tuvalu 12 3,036.00 0.16 1 600.00 = = = 600.00
Uzbekistan 30 17,700.00 0.93 8 2,250.00 1,400.00 = - 3,650.00
Vanuatu 44 12,114.76 0.64 7 2,045.00 - - - 2,045.00
Viet Nam 118 75,515.46 3.98 132,380.00 6,568.00 - 1,390.00 10,338.00
Subtotal 3,539 1,546,666.06 81.43 | 238 62,000.00 53,453.00 10,478.00 9,300.00 135,231.00
Regional 963 352,639.76 18.57 76 25,145.00 7,510.00 - 4,861.60 37,516.60
TOTAL 4,502 1,899,305.83 100.00 | 314 87,145.00 60,963.00 10,478.00 14,161.60 172,747.60

 

a Excludes technical assistance financed under loans, which are included in ADB's loan data.
b Cumulative data are adjusted to exclude technical assistance projects withdrawn by the government.
c Asian Currency Crisis Support Facility.Statistical Annex 237

 

ADB ahi g 7XGe) 7 Colt
No. Financing ‘Financing —_ Financing® Rol gat

- - - - - - - - Afghanistan

= - = “ = ~ “= ~ Azerbaijan
6.30 7 600.00 4,590.00 - - 5,190.00 3.02 Bangladesh
1.27 5 100.00 1,954.00 - - 2,054.00 1.19 Bhutan
4.37 9 1,050.00 3,386.00 - - 4,436.00 2.58 Cambodia
11.54 25 5,665.00 11,050.40 - - 16,715.40 9.72. China, People’s Rep. of
= 2 280.00 + - - 280.00 0.16 Cook Islands

= 12 4,042.90 900.00 - ~ 4,942.90 2.87 East Timor
1.43 4 590.00 - - - 590.00 0.34 Fiji Islands
4.14 16 9,545.00 - - - 9,545.00 5.55 India
6.53 16 3,180.00 2,195.00 5,825.00 2,180.00 13,380.00 7.78 Indonesia
0.90 6 100.00 3,480.00 = “ 3,580.00 2.08 Kazakhstan
0.50 2 150.00 350.00 = = 500.00 0.29 Kiribati
- = - - - = - = Korea, Rep. of
1.69 8 1,185.00 3,090.00 - 650.00 4,925.00 2.86 Kyrgyz Republic
3.42 13 5,350.00 2,300.00 - = 7,650.00 4.45 Lao PDR
- - - - - - - - Malaysia
1.04 3 750.00 700.00 - - 1,450.00 0.84 Maldives
0.35 4 548.00 340.00 = “ 888.00 0.52 Marshall Islands
0.75 2 800.00 - - - 800.00 0.47 Micronesia, Fed. States of
239 5 600.00 2,985.00 = = 3,585.00 2.08 Mongolia
= = a es = = = = Myanmar
0.14 1 = 300.00 = - 300.00 0.17 Nauru
252 9 3,580.00 3,735.00 7 as 7,315.00 4.25 Nepal
1.22 8 7,905.00 = = > 7,905.00 4.60 Pakistan
2.08 8 736.00 1,420.00 - 1,181.00 3,337.00 1.94 Papua New Guinea
4.25 12 1,393.20 3,228.00 1,775.00 “ 6,396.20 3.72 Philippines
0.75 3 1,320.00 500.00 = = 1,820.00 1.06 Samoa
- = - - - - - - Singapore
0.66 2 800.00 es = = 800.00 0.47 Solomon Islands
4.59 11 1,085.00 5,600.00 = ca 6,685.00 3.89 Sri Lanka
- - - - - - - - Taipei,China
2.22 10 450.00 3,800.00 = 600.00 4,850.00 2.82 Tajikistan
3.62 6 450.00 1,600.00 = 500.00 2,550.00 1.48 Thailand
= 2 271.00 = = ca 271.00 0.16 Tonga

- = - - - - - - Turkmenistan
0.35 1 - 250.00 - - 250.00 0.15 Tuvalu
20 5 300.00 3,020.00 - - 3,320.00 1.93 Uzbekistan
1.18 4 1,033.00 330.00 = 67.00 1,430.00 0.83 Vanuatu
5.98 12 1,755.00 4,924.00 - 2,440.00 9,119.00 5.30 Viet Nam
78.28 233 55,614.10 66,027.40 7,600.00 7,618.00 136,859.50 79.58 Subtotal
21.72 73 22,046.00 11,060.00 = 2,022.00 35,128.00 20.42 Regional

 

100.00 306 77,660.10 77,087.40 7,600.00 9,640.00 171,987.50 100.00 TOTAL238 ANNUAL REPORT 2000

Ce

Table 25
TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE GRANTS, 2000
($ thousand)

Project Advisory and

Lacs clad o}etTel (elie

 

BANGLADESH
Second Nonformal Education 600.00? Regional Rail Traffic Enhancement 900.00? Road Network Improvement and Maintenance 800.00? Pension and Insurance Sector Project 600.00? Organizational Reform of Bangladesh Railway (Phase III) - 840.00?
Capacity Building of the Securities and Exchange Commission and Selected
Capital Market Institutions - 850.00°
Strengthening the National Accounts and Poverty Monitoring System - 600.00
BHUTAN
Poverty Assessment and Analysis - 100.00
Road Planning and Management Strengthening - 954.00?
Public Sector Resource Management - 300.00?
Institutional Development of the National Technical Training Authority - 300.00°
Project Appraisal and Portfolio Management for Financial Institutions - 400.00?
CAMBODIA
Education Sector Development Program 800.00° =
Financial Sector Development Program 800.00? Rural Development 600.00? Capacity Building in Public-Private Partnerships for Transport - 150.00
Education Strategic Support - 150.00
Develop a Strategy for Management of Provincial Power Supplies - 150.00
Building Capacity in Tourism Planning - 586.00°
Capacity Building for HIV/AIDS Prevention and Control - 600.00?
Implementation of Land Legislation - 600.00
CHINA, PEOPLE’S REPUBLIC OF
Ningxia-Shapotou Water Resources Development 930.00° Ganzhou-Longyan Railway 750.00? Hebei Province Wastewater Treatment 850.00? Southern Sichuan Roads Development 800.00? Fujian Soil Conservation and Rural Development Project (Phase I!) 650.00 Harbin Water Supply 720.00? Capacity Building for Social Assessments - 781.40?
Study of Funding Options for Agricultural Research in the People’s Republic of China - 150.00
Strengthening Urban Solid Waste Management - 600.00?
Implementation of the Tendering and Bidding Law and Related Regulations - 565.00
Acid Rain Control and Environmental Improvement 964.00° Policy Support for the PRC 2020 Project (Phase III) - 900.00
Development of a Small and Medium-Sized Enterprise Credit Support System - 750.00
Global Environment Facility Partnership on Land Degradation in Dryland Ecosystems - 100.00
Establishing an Enterprise Sample Survey System - 600.00
Assessment of Small and Medium Cities Urban Infrastructure Development - 150.00
Institutional Strengthening of China Development Bank - 600.00°
Development of Financing Policies and Mechanisms for Small and Medium-Sized
Enterprises = 700.00°
Private Sector Development - 600.00
Interregional Power Transmission Network Development Strategy - 800.00°

a To be financed from the Japan Special Fund (JSF).Statistical Annex 239

ee ee

CONTINUED

Project Advisory and

ag) TLC A Operational

 

CHINA, PEOPLE’S REPUBLIC OF

Preparing National Strategies for Soil and Water Conservation - 800.00
Jiangsu Highway Build-Operate-Transfer Project - 555007
Transjurisdiction Environmental Management (Technical Assistance Cluster) - 2,100.00"
Policy Support for Social Security Reform under Tenth Five-Year Plan - 150.00
Preparing a Methodology for Development Planning in Poverty Blocks under the
New Poverty Strategy of PRC = 150.00
COOK ISLANDS
Preparing an Economic Report - 180.00
Review of the Superannuation and Insurance Schemes - 100.00
EAST TIMOR
Community Empowerment Program = 990.00
Transport Sector Restoration - 1,000.00
Capacity Building for Governance and Public Sector Management - 1,000.00
Poverty Assessment and Statistics in East Timor (Phase |) - 52.90
Rehabilitation of the Telecommunications Sector - 150.00
Microfinance - 150.00
Environmental Assessment Capacity Improvement - 250.00
Rehabilitation of the Telecommunications Sector (Phase I!) - 150.00
Formulating Strategies for Economic and Social Development - 650.00°
Capacity Building for Local Government - 150.00
Strengthening the Microfinance Policy and Legal Framework - 250.00°
Economic Policy Forum = 150.00
FUJI ISLANDS
Strengthening Debt Management - 150.00
Preparation of a Medium-Term National Development Plan = 150.00
Capacity Building of the Native Land Trust Board in Preparing Land Maps and
Establishing Land Boundaries - 140.00
Fiji Development Bank Review - 150.00
INDIA
Preliminary Engineering for the West Bengal Corridor Development Project 150.00 Resettlement and Environmental Assessment for the West Bengal Corridor
Development Project 150.00 Economic and Poverty Analysis for the West Bengal Corridor Development Project 150.00 Supporting Fiscal Reforms in Kerala - 1,000.00
Environmental Management at the State Level (Technical Assistance Cluster) - 3,620.00
Establishing a Public-Private Joint Venture for the West Bengal North-South
Economic Corridor Development - 150.00
Policy and Operational Support and Capacity Building for the Insurance Regulatory
and Development Authority - 800.00
Development of Secondary Debt Market - 600.00
Reducing Poverty in Urban India = 300.00
Participatory Poverty Assessment at the State Level = 690.00
Support for India States’ Reform Forum 2000 - 85.00

a To be financed from the JSF.
b Of this amount, $2 million is to be financed from the JSF.240 ANNUAL REPORT 2000

Ce

CONTINUED

Project

acs) ald

Advisory and
eo) Teli Celae|

 

eoance

INDIA

Institutional Strengthening of the Aid Accounts and Audit Division of the
Ministry of Finance

Reorganization Plan for Gujarat Electricity Board

Consumer Awareness and Participation in Power Sector Reforms

Support to Gujarat Electricity Regulatory Commission

Building Housing and Urban Development Corporation's Capacity for Lending
to Community-Based Finance Institutions

INDONESIA

Decentralized Health Services

Preparation of the Decentralized Basic Education Project

Outer Island Electrification

Poor Farmers’ Income Improvement

Monitoring and Evaluating the Social Protection Sector Development Program
(Supplementary)

Monitoring and Evaluating the Health and Nutrition Sector Development Program
(Supplementary)

Public Expenditure Management and the Implications of Decentralization

Promoting Deregulation and Competition

Small and Medium Enterprise Development

Improving Public Sector Procurement

Governance Audit of the Public Prosecution Service

Corporate Governance Reform

Financial Management System

Capacity Building for Decentralized Natural Resources Management

Support for Health Sector Policy Reform

Public Relations Activities in Support of Government's Anticorruption Efforts

KAZAKHSTAN
Preparation of the Locust Management Project
Rural Water Supply Sector
Improvement of the Road Sector Efficiency
Deepening of Agricultural Reforms and Development Programs
A Comprehensive Medium-Term Poverty Reduction Strategy
Capacity Building for Public Investment Programming

KIRIBATI
Outer Islands Development Program
Public Service Reform

KYRGYZ REPUBLIC
Community-Based Early Childhood Development
Second Phase of the Corporate Governance and Enterprise Reform Program
Capacity Building in the Ministry of Agriculture and Water Resources (Phase I!)
Institutional Strengthening for Community-Based Infrastructure Services
Support to the National Strategy for Poverty Reduction
Environmental Monitoring and Management Capacity Building II
Improvement of the Road Sector Efficiency
Improving the Enabling Environment for Skills and Entrepreneurship Development

180.00?
150.00°
800.00

420.00°

350.00°

700.00°
700.00°

Of this amount, $30,000 is to be financed by the Government of Australia with ADB acting as executing agency.

To be financed by the Government of Australia with ADB acting as executing agency.
To be financed from the JSF.

To be financed from the Asian Currency Crisis Support Facility (ACCSF).

To be financed by the Government of Finland with ADB acting as executing agency.

600.00
600.00

50.00
450.00

150.00

2,000.00°

1,000.00%
225.004
1,500.00°
2,000.00%
780.00
1,000.00
300.00
1,100.004
775.00°
1,000.00°
150.00

750.006
800.00°
830.00°
500.00°

150.00

585.00
650.00°
600.00
650.00°
440.00°
600.00°Statistical Annex 241

Ce ee

CONTINUED

Project Pe WiTxol aa TiTe |

Lace Lola (oye eCelar |

 

LAO PEOPLE'S DEMOCRATIC REPUBLIC

Small Towns Development 700.00? Energy and Transport Socio-Environmental Management 150.00 =
Nam Ngum River Basin Development 850.00? Smallholder Development Project 750.00° Management Information System (Phase II) (Supplementary) - 280.00
Assessing a Concession Agreement for the Lao PDR Component of the

Chiang Rai to Kunming Highway - 150.00
Towards Implementation of the Agriculture Strategy - 100.00
Participatory Assessment of Poverty in the Lao PDR - 150.00
Rural Finance Development (Technical Assistance Cluster) - 2,020.00
Strengthening Corporate Governance and Management of State-Owned

Commercial Banks = 900.00
Capacity Building for Primary Health Care - 800.00
Strengthening Social and Environmental Management Capacity in the

Department of Roads - 200.00
Participatory Poverty Monitoring and Evaluation - 600.00

MALDIVES
Information Technology Development 150.00 a
Science and Technology Masterplan - 600.00
Capacity Building for the Maldives Customs Services - 700.00°
MARSHALL ISLANDS

Outer Island Transport Infrastructure 340.00? Strengthening the Capacity of the Ministry of Finance - 150.00
Community-Based Coastal Marine Resources Development - 298.00
Reviewing the Health Management Information System - 100.00

MICRONESIA, FEDERATED STATES OF
Improving Capacity in Performance-Based Public Finance Management

Implementation = 500.00

Improving Access to Laws = 300.00
MONGOLIA

Rural Finance 700.00° =

Housing Sector Finance 600.00? eS

Capacity Building for Cadastral Survey and Land Registration - 990.00°

Strengthening Financial Sector Development - 600.00

Capacity Building in Agriculture - 695.00°
NAURU

Strengthening the Ministry of Finance and Supporting the Bureau of Statistics - 300.00°
NEPAL

Second Secondary Education Sector 800.00? =

Information and Communication Technology for Improved Financial Services Provision 565.00° 
Group Formation and Training of Women Beneficiaries (Supplementary) - 200.00°

Formulating an Action Plan on Civil Service Reform (Supplementary) - 30.00

a To be financed from the JSF.242 ANNUAL REPORT 2000

Ce

 

CONTINUED
Project Advisory and
Lacs clad (o) ete le Cedar
NEPAL
Strengthening the National Statistical System - 770.00?
Company, Insolvency, and Secured Transactions Law Reform - 250.00
Agriculture Sector Performance Review - 600.00?
Management Reforms and Efficiency Improvements for the Nepal Electricity Authority - 800.00°
Strengthening Corporate and Financial Governance (Technical Assistance Cluster) - 3,300.00
PAKISTAN
Enhancing Capital Market Depth for Preparing Capital Market Development Program Il 150.00 Capacity Building for Debt and Risk Management of the Ministry of Finance - 995.00
Capacity Building of the National Electric Power Regulatory Authority - 1,000.00
Strengthening of Institutional Capacity for Judicial and Legal Reform - 2,900.00
Support for Privatization of Karachi Electric Supply Corporation - 1,000.00
Institutional Strengthening of Export Promotion Bureau (Technical Assistance Cluster) - 800.00
Operational Review of the State Life Insurance Corporation - 660.00
Institutional Strengthening for Government-Nongovernment Organization
Cooperation - 400.00
PAPUA NEW GUINEA
Governance and Public Sector Reform Program (Supplementary) 381.00° Agro-Industry Development 500.00? Coastal Fisheries Management and Development 340.00? Community Water-Transport Project 580.00? Strengthening Financial Management of the Health Sector (Supplementary) - 186.00
Review of Mining and Hydrocarbons Tax Regimes - 325.00
Review of Constraints to Informal Sector Development - 225.00
Rehabilitation of the Maritime Navigation Aids System - 800.00°
PHILIPPINES
Education Sector Development Program 998.00° Rural Electrification 600.00? Rural Road Development 1,000.00? Implementation of the Convention on Biological Diversity - 120.00
Joint ADB, United Nations Development Programme, and World Bank
Poverty Consultations - 123.20
Establishment of an Official Development Assistance Unit in the Flagship Committee - 100.00
Rural Electrification Institutional Strengthening - 750.00
Grains Policy and Institutional Reforms - 630.00°
Capacity Building Support for Pasig River Environmental Management and
Rehabilitation - 1,000.00
Institutional Strengthening of Housing and Urban Development Sector = 150.00
Strengthening Management Capacity and Improving Quality of Technical Education
and Skills Development System - 775.00°
Studies on the Access of the Poor to Education - 150.00
SAMOA
Education Support - 820.00
Capacity Building of Financial and Business Advisory Intermediaries - 500.00
Capacity Building for Urban Planning and Management - 500.00?

a To be financed from the JSF.
b To be financed by the Government of Australia with ADB acting as executing agency.
¢ To be financed from the ACCSF.Statistical Annex 243

CONTINUED

Project Advisory and

ag) TLC A Operational

 

SOLOMON ISLANDS

Nonformal Vocational Education and Training 250.00 Strengthening Public Sector Management (Phase 2) oa 550.00
SRI LANKA
Eastern Province Coastal Community Development 1,000.00 Preparation of the North East Emergency Rehabilitation Project 150.00 =
Secondary Towns Water Supply and Sanitation 1,000.00 Plantation Development 800.00? Postsecondary Education Modernization 500.00? Re-engineering of Road Sector Institutions (Supplementary) - 360.00
To Establish Public-Private Partnerships for Railways - 150.00
Accounting Review of the National Water Supply and Drainage Board - 100.00
Promotion of Private Sector Involvement in Oil and Gas Exploration - 325.00
Governance and Institutional Support for Private Sector Development - 1,900.00°
Small and Medium Enterprise Development - 400.00°
TAJIKISTAN
Regional Railway Improvement 150.00 Agriculture Rehabilitation 750.00? Strategy for Improved Flood Management - 550.00?
Support to Rural Financial Systems Development = 150.00
To Develop a National Poverty Reduction Strategy - 150.00
Improving Barki Tajik’s Billing and Collection System - 500.00?
Introducing International Accounting Standards at Barki Tajik - 500.00?
Institutional and Policy Support in Road Sector - 500.00?
Capacity Building for Environmental Assessment and Monitoring - 600.00”
Improving Aid Coordination and External Debt Management
(Technical Assistance Cluster) - 1,000.00?
THAILAND
Solid Waste Management Sector 150.00 Community Assessment and Development for the Samut Prakarn Wastewater
Management = 150.00
Capacity Building for Regional Environmental Management - 900.00°
Mae Moh Environmental Evaluation - 500.00°
Education Sector Reforms - 700.00?
Training in Business Reorganization and Insolvency = 150.00
TONGA
Preparation of an Economic Report - 124.00
Poverty Assessment - 147.00
TUVALU
To Upgrade the Tuvalu Maritime Training Institute 250.00° UZBEKISTAN
Urban Social Infrastructure Development 720.00° Corporate Governance Reform Program 700.00? =
Interim Review of Senior Secondary Education System - 1,000.00?

a To be financed from the JSF.
b To be financed by the Government of Finland with ADB acting as executing agency.
¢ To be financed by the Government of Switzerland with ADB acting as executing agency.244 ANNUAL REPORT 2000

Ce

 

CONTINUED
Project Advisory and
Lacs clad (o) ete le Cedar
UZBEKISTAN
Development of the Insurance Industry - 300.00
Facilitating Development of the Railway Sector - 600.00°
VANUATU
Skills Development 250.00° =
Institutional Strengthening of the Vanuatu National Council for Women - 150.00
Institutional Support to Central Agencies for the Comprehensive Reform Program
(Phase III) - 700.00
Capacity Building of the Legal Sector - 330.00°
VIET NAM
Central Region Poverty Reduction 824.00° Provincial Roads Improvement 1,000.00° Human Capital of the Poor in Viet Nam: Policy Options = 145.00
Supporting Preparation of the National Poverty Reduction Strategy - 150.00
Improved Official Development Assistance Effectiveness Through Partnership
Initiatives = 150.00
Capacity Building for Prevention of Food-Borne Diseases - 500.00?
Low-Income Housing and Secondary Towns Urban Development Needs
Assessment Study - 500.00°
Capacity Building for Water Resources Management (Technical Assistance Cluster) - 3,800.00°
Secondary Education Sector Master Plan - 600.00°
Support of Rural Businesses - 1,000.00
Strengthening the Planning Capacity of the Ministry of Agriculture and
Rural Development - 300.00°
Revision of Bankruptcy Law Support - 150.00
TOTAL 33,862.00 102,997.50

To be financed from the JSF.

Of this amount, $67,000 is to be financed by the Government of New Zealand with ADB acting as executing agency.

Of this amount, $1.8 million is to be financed from the JSF and $2 million by the Government of the Netherlands with ADB acting as executing agency.
Of this amount, $440,000 is to be financed by the Government of Belgium with ADB acting as executing agency.

anceStatistical Annex 245

ee

Table 26
TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE GRANTS BY SECTOR,’ 1967-2000, 1999, 2000

1967-2000" 1999 2000

$ Thousand . $ Thousand .  $ Thousand a9

 

Agriculture and

 

Natural Resources 1,000 444,228.14 28.72 45 28,301.00 20.93 33 24,033.00 17.56
Energy 383 157,729.05 10.20 9) 9,754.00 774 15 9,289.00 6.79
Finance 300 119,478.36 Tle 20 14,870.00 11.00 25 17,825.00 13.02
Industry and

Nonfuel Minerals 121 43,344.70 2.80 3 2,750.00 2.03 4 4,700.00 3.43
Social Infrastructure 669 283,841.97 18.35 51 25,694.50 19.00 46 24,699.00 18.05
Transport and

Communications 449 198,923.95 12.86 26 14,636.00 10.82 31 15,199.00 11.11
Multisector 33 25,275.90 1.63 4 2,800.00 2.07 5 2,497.90 1.82
Others 584 273,844.00 west 70 36,425.50 26.94 74 38,616.60 28.22
TOTAL‘ 3,539 1,546,666.06 100.00 238 135,231.00 100.00 233 =136,859.50 100.00

a Excludes loan-financed technical assistance (which are included in loan data) and regional activities.
b Cumulative data adjusted to exclude technical assistance grants withdrawn by governments.
¢ Figures may not add because of rounding.

 

Table 27
TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE LOANS AND GRANTS BY SECTOR, 2000
KeT) Grant? Total oe

Agriculture and Natural Resources 62.53 24.03 86.56 22.65
Energy 11.68 oo) 20.97 5.49
Finance 6.46 17.82 24.28 6.35
Industry and Nonfuel Minerals 0.00 4.70 4.70 1.23
Social Infrastructure 66.61 24.70 91.31 23.89
Transport and Communications 69.03 15.20 84.23 22.04
Multisector 15.67 2250) 18.17 4.75
Others 13.30 38.62 51.92 13.59
TOTAL 245.28 136.86 382.14 100.00

a Excludes regional technical assistance.246 ANNUAL REPORT 2000

Ce

Table 28
REGIONAL TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE ACTIVITIES, 2000

$ Thousand

Conference
ADB-ADB Institute Capacity Building Seminar on Poverty Reduction Issues 63.00
First Meeting of the Private Sector Forum on Economic Cooperation in the Eastern South Asia Subregion
(Supplementary) 30.00
An International Conference: “What Have We Learned from the Past 30 Years of Research on Poverty”
(Supplementary) 740.00
Microcredit Summit Asia and Pacific Regional Meeting 140.00
Ninth International Congress of the World Federation of Public Health Associations 50.00

Regional Technical Assistance for the 33" Annual Meeting: 1. Poverty Reduction: Infrastructure
and Governance Dimensions Conference; 2. High-Level Women in Finance and Economics Seminar;

3. Asian Corporate Governance Round Table in Hong Kong 150.00
Second Asia Development Forum 200.00
Seventh Joint ADB-Organisation for Economic Co-operation and Development (OECD) Forum on Asian

Perspectives—Technology and Poverty Reduction in Asia 145.00
Sixth Joint ADB-OECD Forum on Development Resource Mobilization in the Postcrisis Period 100.00
Support for Information and Communication Technology and Education 100.00
Tenth ADB Tax Conference 150.00
Third Asia Development Forum 150.00
Thirteenth Workshop on the Asian Economic Outlook 200.00

Research

Fifth Agriculture and Natural Resources Research at Consultative Group on International Agricultural

Research Centers 6,080.00"

Study

Action Plans for Reducing Vehicle Emissions 900.00?
Assessing the Impact of Transport and Energy Infrastructure on Poverty Reduction 800.00
Capacity Building for Indigenous Peoples/Ethnic Minority Issues and Poverty Reduction 400.00
Capacity Building to Promote Traditional Environmental Management in the Pacific Developing Member Countries (DMCs) 300.00°
Combating Desertification in Asia 450.00°
Commercialization of Microfinance 700.00*
A Comparative Assessment of Economic Development in Central Asia 250.00
Cooperative Airspace Management in the Pacific Region 350.00
Countering Money Laundering in the Asian and Pacific Region 650.00?
Drug Eradication in the Greater Mekong Subregion 150.00
Economic Cooperation in Asia 150.00
Establishment of Backbone Telecommunications Networks Project—Phase 1 150.00
Identification and Prioritization of Subregional Projects in South Asia 785.00
Improving Disability Issues Related to Poverty Reduction 300.00
Poverty Assessment in Pacific DMCs 400.00
Preventing Human Immunodeficiency Virus/Acquired Immunodeficiency Syndrome (HIV/AIDS)

among Mobile Populations (Supplementary) 160.00
Private Sector Development in the Pacific 350.00
Public-Private Community Partnerships in Urban Services for the Poor 550.00
Regional Economic Cooperation in Central Asia (Phase II-Year Two) 420.007
Regional Indicative Master Plan on Power Interconnection in the Greater Mekong Subregion 900.00¢
Regional Initiative to Eliminate Micronutrient Malnutrition in Asia through Public-Private Partnership 1,100.00°

To be financed from the Japan Special Fund (JSF).

Of this amount, $280,000 is to be financed by the Government of Denmark with ADB acting as executing agency.

Of this amount, $200,000 is to be financed by the Global Mechanism with ADB acting as executing agency.

Of this amount, $742,000 is to be financed by the Government of Norway with ADB acting as executing agency.

Of this amount, $800,000 is to be financed from the JSF and $300,000 by the Government of Denmark with ADB acting as executing agency.

eanceStatistical Annex 247

ee

 

CONTINUED
Study
Regional Power Transmission Modernization Project in the Central Asian Republics 900.00?
Regional Study of Nutrition Trends, Policies and Strategies in Asia and the Pacific (Supplementary) 50.00
Road Asset Management 150.00
Strategic Study on Development Options for Economic Cooperation between the People’s Republic of
China (PRC) and Mongolia in Eastern Parts of Inner Mongolia Autonomous Region, PRC and Mongolia 250.00°
Strategies for Poverty Reduction through Urban Environmental Improvement 500.00°
Study of Pro-Poor Economic Growth and Institutional Constraints on Poverty Reduction in DMCs 610.00
Study of the Interlinkages Between Governance and Poverty in Sectoral Development and Reform Activities 600.00*
Study on Potential Use of Biotechnology in Reducing Poverty and Achieving Food Security in Asia 140.00
Subregional Cooperation in Managing Education Reforms 750.00?
Year 2000 Special Evaluation Studies of ADB Operations in DMCs—Part II 760.00
Year 2000 Technical Assistance for Special Evaluation Studies of ADB Operations in DMCs—Part 1 840.00
Training
2000-2002 Orientation Program for Officials of ADB’s DMCs 750.00
2001 Disbursement Training Seminars in DMCs 150.00
ADB-ADB Institute Workshop on Information and Communications Technology Strategy for Developing Asia 50.00
Audit Training Program for Central Asian Republics 500.00?
Capacity Building for Financial Regulation and Supervision 800.00?
Capacity Building of Ministries of Finance in Selected DMCs for the Association of Southeast Asian
Nations Surveillance Process—Phase II 300.00
Enhancing Municipal Services Delivery Capability—Phase 2 425.00
Long-Term Regional Training Program for Members of the South Pacific Association of Supreme Audit
Institutions—Phase II 200.00
Pacific Governance and Public Sector Management Training Program 300.00
Regional Environmental Action Plan in Central Asia 500.00"
Regional Round Table on Information and Communications Technology 90.00
Regional Workshops on Project Economic Analysis for Selected DMCs 240.00
Seminars on Business Opportunities in 2000-2001 500.00
Seminars on the Use of Consulting Services in 2000-2001 500.00
Third ADB-Colombo Plan Training Program 50.00
Others
Building a Poverty Database 600.00
Combating Trafficking of Women and Children in South Asia 440.00°
Development of a Regional Technical Assistance Home Page 70.00
External Advisory Panel on a Long-Term Strategic Framework for ADB 700.00
Financial Services for Poor Women 600.00
Harmonizing and Strengthening Business Tendency Surveys in Selected DMCs 50.00
National Resettlement Policy Enhancement and Capacity Building 500.00°
Promoting Subregional Cooperation in the Greater Mekong Subregion—Phase IV, Year 2 800.00°
Regulatory Systems and Networking of Water Utilities and Regulatory Bodies 500.00?
Rollback Malaria Initiative in the Greater Mekong Subregion 600.007
Small and Medium-Size Enterprise Growth and Development in the Mekong Region 750.00
Southeast and East Asia Regional Consultation on the Impact of Large Dams 100.00
TOTAL 35,128.00

a To be financed from the JSF.
b To be financed by the Government of Finland with ADB acting as executing agency.248 ANNUAL REPORT 2000

Ce ee

Table 29

NET TRANSFER OF RESOURCES

(ORDINARY CAPITAL RESOURCES AND ASIAN DEVELOPMENT FUND),?» 1998-2000
($ million)

 

Afghanistan - - - - - Azerbaijan - - - - - Bangladesh (0.30) 11.51 2.35. 146.21 172.80 158.38
Bhutan = 0.53 (0.07) 3:39 1.10 5.83
Cambodia - = - 28.42 24.86 49.29
China, People’s Rep. of 515.56 444.18 400.53 - - Cook Islands - - - 1.72 0.55 0.11
Fiji Islands (4.85) (5.39) (2.90) = = =
Hong Kong, China - - - - - India 293.70 216.73 (137.91) - - Indonesia 590.69 684.26 18.11 (7.43) (6.36) 11.28
Kazakhstan 102.01 (11.05) 0.74 12.54 6.29 3.92
Kiribati = - = (0.07) (0.08) 0.97
Korea, Rep. of 1,498.26 (257.35) (320.69) = = Kyrgyz Republic - - - 42.10 77.82 19.02
Lao PDR - = = 59.16 38.53 41.75
Malaysia (30.86) (47.93) (20.05) - = Maldives - = = (0.08) (0.02) 0.70
Marshall Islands = - - 7.75 357 9.53
Micronesia, Fed. States of - - - 6.14 4.76 4.14
Mongolia = = = 29.94 44.47 29.94
Myanmar = - - (0.31) (0.05) =
Nauru - 225 (0.07) - - Nepal 13:16 4.99 3.20 84.09 45.86 64.38
Pakistan (21.02) (81.82) (39.79) 202.21 95:13 117.92
Papua New Guinea (1.33) 4.82 (15.05) 0.28 0.85 (2.54)
Philippines (31.73) (292.41) (191.59) 13.77 15.34 13.74
Samoa - = = 2.38 (2.05) (2.09)
Singapore - = = = = =
Solomon Islands - = = 13312 (0.98) (0.46)
Sri Lanka (0.72) 3.38 6.10 92.94 67.96 40.40
Taipei,China - = = = - Tajikistan - - - - 9.79 12.22
Thailand 384.13 209.04 (574.92) (2.25) (2.43) (2.71)
Tonga = = = 4.31 152 2.16
Turkmenistan - - - = - Tuvalu - - = - 2.80 (0.02)
Uzbekistan 1.36 15.58 55.41 0.46 0.09 1.19
Vanuatu = = “ 11.02 5.85 9.94
Viet Nam (0.03) 2.50 38.15 124.07 185.77 193.08
Regional 48.68 21.46 0.06 - - TOTAL 3,356.71 925.29 (778.40) 875.88 793.74 782.07

— Data not applicable.

() Negative.

Note: Figures may not add because of rounding.

a Net transfer of resources for OCR defined as loan disbursements less principal repayments/prepayments and interest/charges received. Includes private sector loans and net
equity investments.

b Net transfer of resources for ADF defined as loan disbursements less principal repayments and interest/charges received. Includes private sector loans.Statistical Annex 249

Ce

Table 30

NET TRANSFER OF RESOURCES

(ORDINARY CAPITAL RESOURCES AND ASIAN DEVELOPMENT FUND COMBINED),*? 1991-2000
($ million)

 

 

1991-1995
We le(

Afghanistan (0.26) = - = = 
Azerbaijan - - - - - 
Bangladesh 249.03 226.75 112.65 145.91 184.31 160.73
Bhutan 2.52 2.09) 6.34 3:39 1.63 5.76
Cambodia 10.29 31.71 975 28.42 24.86 49.29
China, People’s Rep. of 29357 547.49 375.44 515.56 444.18 400.53
Cook Islands 1.65 3.78 2.20 er 0.55 0.11

Fiji Islands (5.08) (4.44) (4.39) (4.85) (5.39) (2.90)
Hong Kong, China - - - - - 
India 273.93 279.97 364.38 293.70 216.73 (137.91)
Indonesia (7.38) (1,198.26) (115.65) 583.26 677.90 29.39
Kazakhstan 12:52 26.90 63.87 114.55 (4.76) 4.66
Kiribati 0.20 (0.14) (0.08) (0.07) (0.08) 0.97
Korea, Rep. of (35.06) (141.51) 1,912.16 1,498.26 (257-35) (320.69)
Kyrgyz Republic 6.79 25.80 51.24 42.10 77.82 19.02
Lao PDR 29.56 80.50 81.67 59.16 38.53 41.75
Malaysia (77.58) (59.08) (8.45) (30.86) (47.93) (20.05)
Maldives Bos 5.68 2.50 (0.08) (0.02) 0.70
Marshall Islands 1.02 2.96 9:99) 7.75 3.57 9.53
Micronesia, Fed. States of 0.07 0.11 11.31 6.14 4.76 4.14
Mongolia 21039 33.00 65.91 29.94 44.47 29.94
Myanmar (10.50) (16.70) (17.17) (0.31) (0.05) ~

Nauru - - - = 2.25 (0.07)
Nepal 49.50 55179 83.45 97.25 50.85 67.58
Pakistan 27757 133.24 85.50 181.19 13:31 78.13
Papua New Guinea 217i (14.89) (1.18) (1.05) 5.67 (17.59)
Philippines (38.25) (122.73) 6.72 (17.96) (277.07) (177.85)
Samoa 4.68 (0.97) (1.48) 2.38 (2.05) (2.09)
Singapore (5.52) - = = = 
Solomon Islands 0.34 (0.35) (0.02) 13.12 (0.98) (0.46)
Sri Lanka 102.24 126.73 70.61 92.22 71.34 46.50
Taipei,China (0.29) = - = = 
Tajikistan - - - - 9.79 12.22
Thailand (63.72) (20.69) 456.69 381.88 206.61 (577.63)
Tonga 2.65 2.40 1.58 4.31 152 2.16
Turkmenistan = = = = = 
Tuvalu - = - = 2.80 (0.02)
Uzbekistan = = = 1.82 15.67 56.60
Vanuatu 1.50 0.15 0.01 11.02 5.85 9.94
Viet Nam 6.46 25.81 145.89 124.04 188.27 231.23

Regional 8.68 2.48 (17.54) 48.68 21.46 0.06
TOTAL 1,127.84 33.55 3,753.90 4,232.59 1,719.02 3.66

 

- Data not applicable.
() Negative.
Note: Figures may not add because of rounding.

a Net transfer of resources defined as loan disbursements less principal repayments/prepayments and interest/charges received. Includes private sector loans and net
equity investments.250 ANNUAL REPORT 2000 FINANCIAL RESOURCES

Ce ee

Table 31
ASIAN DEVELOPMENT FUND (ADF) RESOURCES AND COMMITMENT AUTHORITY

ADF-CONTRIBUTED RESOURCES
($ million; as of 31 December 2000)

Change in 2000

 

Valued as of Exchange Rate Net NET Eto
EM y-a-titvam cl Meee lCola} Adjustment Change EMS ul Tle)
(US$ equiv.) (US$ equiv.) (US$ equiv.) (US$ equiv.) | (US$ equiv.)(SDR® equiv.)

Australia 827.24 - (111.72) (111.72) 715.52 549.17
Austria 139°09 3:23) (10.56) (7.33) 131.76 101.13
Belgium 125.46 B25) (9.32) (6.07) 119.39 91.63
Canada 1,057.59 29.03 (41.77) (12.74) 1,044.85 801.94
Denmark 136.06 4.09 (10.41) (6.32) 129.74 99.58
Finland 74.14 3.01 (5.47) (2.46) 71.68 55.02
France 686.70 19.95 (52.49) (32.54) 654.16 502.08
Germany 1,093.35 24.37 (83.01) (58.64) 1,034.71 794.15
Hong Kong, China 16.42 3.85 = 3.85 20.27 15.56
Indonesia 12.46 2.50 = 2.50 14.96 11.48
Italy 420.69 21.49 (32.78) (11.29) 409.40 314.22
Japan 11,383.12 244.37 (1,168.14) (923.77) 10,459.35 8,027.69
Korea, Rep. of 50.70 9.56 (3.43) 6.13 56.83 43.62
Malaysia 3.74 1229) = mez) 5.03 3.86
Nauru 93; a = = 1.93 1.48
Netherlands 402.23 11.30 (30.24) (18.94) 383.29 294.18
New Zealand 43.35 7.47 (6.60) 0.87 44.22 33.94
Norway 101.82 4.18 (8.65) (4.47) 97.35 74.72
Spain DAT 235) (5.72) (3.37) 74.40 57.10
Sweden 168.94 6.62 (17.10) (10.48) 158.46 121.62
Switzerland 223.24 6.03 (4.41) 1.62 224.86 172.58
Taipei,China 25.83 3:11 = Sl 28.94 22.21
Thailand 2.02 0.62 (0.25) 0.37 2:39 1.83
Turkey 93:25 7.14 = 7.14 100.39 77.05
United Kingdom 637.16 25.21 (51.35) (26.14) 611.02 468.96
United States 2,647.91 77.00 = 77.00 2,724.91 2,091.40
TOTAL 20,452.21 521.02 (1,653.42) (1,132.40) 19,319.81 14,828.20

ADF COMMITMENT AUTHORITY
($ million; as of 31 December 2000)

1999 Lt}

ADF VII Contributions 1,601.60 1,978.21
ADF VI Contributions” 430.11 417.02
Expanded Advance Commitment Authority‘ 1,500.00 2,231.43
Total ADF Resources@ S55 1/1 4,626.66
Less: Loans Committed 3,367.88° 4,470.97'
Provision for Disbursement Risk 132.06 155.69

 

TOTAL 31.77 0.00

— Data not applicable.
() Negative.

Note: Figures may not add because of rounding.

a Refers to special drawing rights (SDR) valued at the rate of $1.30291 per SDR as of 31 December 2000.

b Amounts of ADF VI contributions released for operational commitments during the ADF VII period.

c Incorporates additional resources.

d_ Excludes pre-ADF VII amounts for determining ADF commitment authority under the new financial planning framework for managing ADF resources as approved
by the Board of Directors on 15 April 1997.

Excludes loans that were conditionally approved after 16 December 1999.

f Excludes loans that were conditionally approved after 7 December 2000.

°Statistical Annex 251

ee ee

Table 32
TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE SPECIAL FUND
($ thousand equivalent; as of 31 December 2000)?

Total Natori

Contributions Utilized

 

Direct Voluntary Contributions

Australia 2,484 2,484
Austria 159 159
Bangladesh 47 47
Belgium 1,394 1,394
Canada 3,346 3,346
China, People’s Rep. of 600 600
Denmark 1,963 1,963
Finland 237 237:
France 1,697 1,697
Germany 3,315 3315
Hong Kong, China 100 100
India 2,763 2,763
Indonesia 250 250
Italy 774 774
Japan 47,710 47,710
Korea, Rep. of 1,900 1,900
Malaysia 909 909
Netherlands 1,338 1,338
New Zealand 1,096 1,096
Norway 3,279 3,279
Pakistan 1,387 1,387
Singapore 1,100 1,100
Spain 190 190

Sri Lanka 6 6
Sweden 861 861
Switzerland 1,035 1,035
Taipei,China 200 200
United Kingdom 5,617 5,617
United States 1,500 1,500
Subtotal 87,257 87,257
Regularized Replenishment Contributions” 238,039 238,039
Transfer to Asian Development Fund (3,472) (3,472)
Allocation from OCR Net Income and Other Resources‘ 577,631 462,174
TOTAL 899,455 783,998

() Negative.

a The amount of contribution is valued as the sum of the amount utilized, translated at the exchange rates used by ADB on the respective dates of utilization,
and the amount unutilized, translated at the exchange rates used by ADB on 31 December 2000.

b Represents Technical Assistance Special Fund (TASF) portion of contributions to the replenishment of the Asian Development Fund and the TASF authorized
by Governors’ Resolution Nos. 182 and 214.

c Represents income, repayments, and reimbursements accruing to TASF since 1980.252 ANNUAL REPORT 2000

Ce

Table 33
JAPAN SPECIAL FUND—REGULAR AND SUPPLEMENTARY CONTRIBUTIONS
Statement of Activities and Change in Net Assets ($ million)

        
 
 

WRT: T Se hehe ah}:]) aEY A 1998

  
    
  
 
 

Contributions committed

 

Revenue 44.3 6.4 2.5 2.4 16.5 17.2 19.6 108.9

Total 493.4 111.3 82.4 2.4 79.0 65.8 57.2 891.5
Expenses 224.2 75.3 13 73.8 96.8 Die 60.8 665.4
Exchange gain (loss) (0.5) (0.1) (11.7) (10.1) (1.6) 0.5 (0.1) (23.6)
Translation adjustments 63.5 (8.9) (37.7) (29.0) (1.8) (0.1) 1.5 (12.5)

 

Change in net assets (110.5)

   
 

 

 

— Data not applicable.
(.) Negative.

a Prior years’ amounts have been restated to conform with the 1995 presentation.

Table 34
JAPAN SPECIAL FUND—ASIAN CURRENCY CRISIS SUPPORT FACILITY
Statement of Activities and Change in Net Assets ($ million)

 

 

1999 2000 Aol e1|

Contributions committed 104.4° 136.6 241.0
Revenue = 0.4 0.4
Total 104.4 137.0 241.4
Expenses 95:7 9.6 105.3
Exchange gain (loss) = - =
Translation adjustments 17.4 (16.5) 0.9
Change in net assets 26.1 110.9 137.0

 

 

 

 

— Data not applicable.

a_ In addition, the Government of Japan has made available noninterest-bearing, nonnegotiable notes in the amount of 360 billion yen ($3.2 billion), encashable
by ADB at any time to meet a call on any guarantee issued under the Asian Currency Crisis Support Facility.

Table 35
JAPAN FUND FOR POVERTY REDUCTION ASSISTANCE, 2000

$ Thousand

INDONESIA

Assisting Girl Street Children at Risk of Sexual Abuse 1,000
PHILIPPINES

Supporting the Sustainable Livelihood for the Poor in Southern Philippines 2,800

On-Site Urban Upgrading for Vulnerable Slum Communities of Payatas 1,000

Off-Site and Off-City Relocation of Vulnerable Slum Communities of Muntinlupa City 1,000
PAPUA NEW GUINEA

Low-Cost Sanitation, Community Awareness and Health Education Program 1,740

TOTAL 7,540ECONOMIC DATA Statistical Annex 253

ee

Table 36
ESTIMATES OF REAL GDP GROWTH RATE, 1990-2000
AND PER CAPITA GNP, 1999

 

 

GDP Growth Rate (%) Per Capita GNP*
Annual Average 69}
(1990-1997) 1999
NIEs 6.9 (2.9) 7.8 8.4 ss
Hong Kong, China 5:0) (5.3) 3 10.5 24,280
Korea, Rep. of Ups} (6.7) 10.9 8.8 8,490
Singapore 8.9 0.1 5.9) 9.9 29,610
Taipei,China 6.7 4.6 5.4 6.0 13,310
CARs, AZERBAUJAN, and MONGOLIA (4.8) ACS: 47 8.1 a
Kazakhstan (7.6)° (1.9) 27 9.6 1,230
Krygyz Republic (6.6)° 21 Bel, 5.0 300
Tajikistan (11.6)* BES 3) 5.0 290
Turkmenistan SS 7.0 16.0 17.6 660
Uzbekistan (Ze 4.3 4.4 4.0 720
Azerbaijan we 10.0 74 11.4 550
Mongolia (1.2) 35 SoZ 0.5 350
PRC
China, People’s Rep. of 10.3 73 Us 8.0 780
SOUTHEAST ASIA 2: (9.0) 2! 5.2 oe
Cambodia 5.0 1.8 5.0 45 260
Indonesia 7.6 (13.1) 0.8 4.8 580
Lao PDR 6.6 4.0 52. 55i 280
Malaysia 92 (7.4) 5.8 8.5 3,400
Myanmar®® 5.6 5.8 10.9 ~ at
Philippines 331 (0.6) 358 3.9 1,020
Thailand 7.4 (10.8) 4.2 4.2 1,960
Viet Nam 79) 5.8 4.8 6.8 370
SOUTH ASIA 5.4 6.0 5.8
Afghanistan 4 (8.0)¢ ae ve .
Bangladesh® 48 5:2 4.9 55: 370
Bhutan? 6.0 5:5 5:9) 6.1 510
India? 5.6 6.6 6.4 6.0 450
Maldives 8.2 8.9 8.8 4.2 1,160
Nepal ®9 4.9 3.4 4.5 6.4 220
Pakistan ®9 4.6 35) Sal 45 470
Sri Lanka 55) 47 4.3 6.0 820
PACIFIC DMCs 0.9 (2.0) 4.2 (1.8)
Cook Islands 257 (2.3) 27: 32. es
Fiji Islands? 2.4 1.4 9.6 (9.3) 2,210
Kiribati 3.4 73. 23) (4.0) 910
Marshall Islands® (0.9) (16.0) 0.8 (2.3) 1,560
Micronesia, Fed. States of® 27 (1.7) 1.3 2.5 1,810
Nauru? . te te te te
Papua New Guinea 5.6 (3.8) Bi 0.8 800
Samoa B35 3.4 D3 7.0 1,060
Solomon Islands? 41 T (1.3) (14.0) 750
Tonga®? 2.0 25 3.5 53 1,720
Tuvalu? 5.6 14.9 3.0 3.0 au
Vanuatu 41 (0.1) (3.0) 2.8 1,170
WEIGHTED AVERAGE" 7.4 0.2 6.3 hyd:

 

... Data not available.

() Negative.

a Based on the World Bank Atlas methodology except for Hong Kong, China and Taipei,China. Fluctuations in prices and exchange rates are smoothened by
averaging the exchange rates for the period 1997-1999, after adjusting for differences in inflation rates between the country and the G-5 countries (France,
Germany, Japan, United Kingdom, and United States).

Preliminary estimates from country sources.

Refers to 1990-1993 for Afghanistan; 1991-1997 for Central Asian republics; and 1992-1997 for Samoa.

Country figure is excluded from respective group and total weighted average.

Refers to fiscal year.

Estimated to be low income ($755 or less).

Refers to gross domestic product (GDP) growth at factor cost.

The weights used were derived from the average of 1995 and 1996 GDP (in US dollars).

Sources: Country sources; ADB data file; World Bank web site (http://www.worldbank.org); and World Bank official communication.

zsereande254 ANNUAL REPORT 2000

Ce

Table 37
GROSS DOMESTIC SAVING, GROSS CAPITAL FORMATION, AND RESOURCE GAP
AS PERCENTAGE OF GDP, 1998-2000

 

Gross Domestic Saving (ef gokrom er) oie) meget L toy) Resource Gap
as Percentage of GDP as Percentage of GDP as Percentage of GDP
AE} ai) A1 10 beh} Wi) 20110 1999  2000°
NIEs
Hong Kong, China 30.1 30.5 32.2 29.0 25.1 27.5 (1.1) (5.4) (4.7)
Korea, Rep. of 34.2 33:5 32.5 212 26.7 28.7 (13.1) (6.8) (3.8)
Singapore 50.5 49.7 49.6 32.6 32.4 31.3 (7.9) (17.3) (18.3)
Taipei,China 25.4 25.4 24.6 24.9 23.4 23.4 (0.5) (2.0) (1.2)
CARs, AZERBAUJAN, and MONGOLIA
Kazakhstan 15.9 17.0 ae 14.3 14.5 a (1.7) (2.4)
Kyrgyz Republic (6.1) SP. wee 15.4 18.0 wee 21S 14.8
Tajikistan He ue Pe ar os
Turkmenistan oe me act Be a wa = = ss
Uzbekistan 19.9 17.3 16.6 20.9 17.1 15:9 1.0 (0.1) (0.7)
Azerbaijan 48.4 16.3 23.1 33.4 30.9 22.7 (15.0) 14.6 (0.4)
Mongolia we we ve ae ve we we se ve
PRC
China, People’s Rep. of 40.8 39.0 we 38.8 38.3 we (2.0) (0.7)
SOUTHEAST ASIA
Cambodia 5.4 73 act 12.0 18.4 ws 6.6 11.1 _
Indonesia 26.5 20.2 25.7 16.8 12.2 17.9 (9.8) (8.0) (7.8)
Lao PDR oa ra ase me wo wee os ea ax
Malaysia 48.5 47.3 46.9 26.6 22.3 27.0 (21.9) (25mm (19.9)
Myanmar 11.8 13.0 wc 12.4 13.2 wa 0.6 0.3 wa
Philippines 12.8 14.9 17.0 20.2 18.6 17.6 74 37 0.6
Thailand 34.5 32.3 ws 20.3 19.9 si (14.2) (12.4) a
Viet Nam 21.5 24.6 27.0 29.0 27.6 29.5 7.6 3.1 2.5
SOUTH ASIA
Afghanistan we wee we wee we we we we we
Bangladesh 17.3 C27 17.8 21.6 22.2 22.4 4.4 45 4.6
Bhutan 24.9 D4) act 41.3 42.6 ws 16.4 1915
India 22.0 223 a 23.0 23.3 a 1.0 1.0
Maldives 6 os wt as a wt 8 a wa
Nepal 13.8 13.6 15:5 24.8 20.5 23.7 Hed 6.9 8.3
Pakistan 16.7 1315 12.9 17.7 14.9 14.9 1.0 1.4 2.0
Sri Lanka 19.1 19.8 we 25ull 21.2 we 6.0 7.3
PACIFIC DMCs
Cook Islands we ve we we we ve oe ve
Fiji Islands 18.0 24.9 8s 16.1 12.0 ae (1.9) (13.0)
Kiribati ee ee

Marshall Islands

Micronesia, Fed. States of

Nauru Po a we a on se a
Papua New Guinea 22.4 ae = ATL a wi (4.7)
Samoa a a om
Solomon Islands

Tonga

Tuvalu

Vanuatu

.. Data not available.
() Negative.
a Preliminary estimates.

Sources: Country sources and ADB data file.Statistical Annex 255

ee

Table 38
CHANGES IN CONSUMER PRICES,? 1998-2000
(%)
1998 1999 2000°
NIEs 4.6 (0.1) 1.1
Hong Kong, China 2.8 (4.0) (3.7)
Korea, Rep. of i 0.8 2:3)
Singapore (0.3) 0.0 1.3
Taipei,China ee 9:2 1.3
CARs, AZERBAUJAN, and MONGOLIA 8.1 22.6 15.9
Kazakhstan® a9 17.8 9.8
Kyrgyz Republic 10.4 35.9 18.7
Tajikistan‘ 27 31.0 24.0
Turkmenistan oe sie we
Uzbekistan 17.7 2971 24.9
Azerbaijan (0.8) (8.5) 1.8
Mongolia 9.4 7.6 11.6
PRC
China, People’s Rep. of (0.8) (1.4) 0.4
SOUTHEAST ASIA 26.3 o2 27
Cambodia4 14.8 4.0 (0.8)
Indonesia 58.0 20.7 3.8
Lao PDR 90.0 128.4 23.2
Malaysia 53 2.8 1.6
Myanmar®® 30.0 Dei 3
Philippines 9.8 6.7 44
Thailand 8.1 0.3 1.6
Viet Nam Tes 4.2 wi
SOUTH ASIA 11.8 4.2 1.8
Afghanistan® ae se wee
Bangladesh‘ 7.0 8.9 3.4
Bhutan 10.6 6.8 we
India's 13.1 3.4
Maldives (1.4) 3.0 (1.1)
Nepal HLS 6.9 sare
Pakistan‘ 7.8 5.7 3.6
Sri Lanka? 9.8 47 6.2
PACIFIC DMCs 10.1 10.0 11.5
Cook Islands4 0.7 1.4 2.0
Fiji Islands by. 2.0 1.1
Kiribati® 47 0.4 2.0
Marshall Islands @ 2.9 2.0 (1.9)
Micronesia, Fed. States of (2.6) 1.9 2.8
Nauru® 4.0 6.7 15
Papua New Guinea 1325 14.9 17.9
Samoa 2.2 0.6 0.5
Solomon Islands? 12.4 8.0 6.6
Tonga 3.0 a 5.3
Tuvalu‘ 0.8 1.0 5.0
Vanuatu4 3.3 2.0 2.7
WEIGHTED AVERAGE" 8.9 2D 1.5
... Data not available.

() Negative.

a Unless otherwise indicated, data refer to changes in average consumer prices of the country.

b Preliminary estimates from country sources.

c Data refer to end of period.

d Data refer to capital city.

e Country figure is excluded from respective group and total weighted average.

f Data refer to fiscal year.

g Discussion in text is based on wholesale price index (WPI). For WPI, growth rates are 5.9, 3.3, and 7.0 for fiscal years 1998, 1999, and 2000, respectively.
h The weights used were derived from the average of 1995 and 1996 gross domestic product (in US dollars).

Sources: Country sources and ADB data file.256 ANNUAL REPORT 2000

Ce ee

 

Table 39
MERCHANDISE TRADE,? 1998-2000
($ million)
Exports (FOB)? Imports (FOB)? Balance of Trade
1998 1999 2000‘ oe} }:) 1999 2000‘ hehe} } 1999 2000‘
NIEs 528,702 556,525 665,168 469,813 505,113 631,806 58,889 51,412 33,361
Hong Kong, China 175,841 174,727 202,693 183,674 177,885 210,910 (7,833) (3,158) (8,217)
Korea, Rep. of 132,122: 145,164 175,782 90,495 116,793 159,181 41,627 28,371 16,601
Singapore 110,561 115,515 138,928 95,782 104,358 127,528 14,779 11,157. 11,400
Taipei, China 110,178 121,119 147,765 99,862 106,077 134,187 10,316 15,042 13,578
CARs, AZERBAUAN, and MONGOLIA 11,727 12,709 12,682 14,380 12,862 10,229 (2,653) (152) 2,453
Kazakhstan 5,871 5,989 6,761 6,672 5,645 4,999 (801) 344 1,762
Kyrgyz Republic 535 463 505 756 547 555 (221) (84) (50)
Tajikistan 586 666 742 731 698 793 (145) (32) (51)
Turkmenistan®* 593 1,187 wa 1,007 1,478 oa (414) (291) awe
Uzbekistan 3,030 2,948 2,774 2/939 2,589 2,382 oil eis) 392
Azerbaijan 678 1,025 1,900 1,724 1,433 1,500 (1,046) (408) 400
Mongolia® 434 432 ra 551 471 oT (117) (40) ws
PRC
China, People’s Rep. of 183,529 194,716 248,937 136,915 158,509 216,842 46,614 36,207 32,095
SOUTHEAST ASIA 216,176 241,336 282,161 170,422 184,658 225,252 45,754 56,677 56,909
Cambodia 913 973 we 1,073 1,170 we (160) (197) wee
Indonesia 50,371 51,242 65,700 31,942 30599 40,800 18,429 20,643 24,900
Lao PDR® 341 306 331 593. 554 591 (212) (249) (260)
Malaysia 71,823 83,933 96,111 54,174 61,161 76,551 17,649 22,772 19,560
Myanmar‘ 1,054 1,505 ee 2557: 2,443 oo (1,463) (938) ees
Philippines 29,496 35,037 38,077 29,524 30,742 31,387 (28) 4,295 6,690
Thailand* 52,878 56,800 67,942 40,559 47,529 62,423 12219) 9,271 5,519
Viet Nam 9,300 11,540 14,000 10,080 10,460 13,500 (780) 1,080 500
SOUTH ASIA 53,354 56,469 65,115 72,393 80,004 89,158 (19,039) (23,535) (24,043)
Afghanistan es me we ns ms a ees es oa
Bangladesh‘ S72 5,324 5,762 6,772 7,221 7,542 (1,600) (1,897) (1,780)
Bhutan®! 111 105 114 136 162 185 (25) (58) (71)
Indiae* 34,298 38,285 44,793 47,544 55,383 62,583 (13,246) (17,098) (17,789)
Maldives 96 92 104 312 354 350 (216) (262) (247)
Nepal 445 525) 748 1,439 1/2911 1,550 (995) (765) (803)
Pakistan‘ 8,434 7,528 8,163 10,301 9,613 9,598 (1,867) (2,085) (1,435)
Sri Lanka 4,798 4,610 5,431 5,889 5,980 7,349 (1,091) (1,370) (1,919)
PACIFIC DMCs 2,458 2,788 2,792 2,347 2,394 2,005 111 394 788
Cook Islands® 3 4 age 38 42 Pa (35) (38) aus
Fiji 423 534 427 615 653 479 (192) (119) (52)
Kiribati 6 8 7 33) 41 41 (27) (33) (34)
Marshall Islands‘ 8 i 8 57 60 59 (50) (52) (51)
Micronesia, Fed. States of 13 11 23 122 129 145 (109) (118) (122)
Nauru a ae axe a = Re a a ve
Papua New Guinea 1,800 2,019 2,178 1,083 1,082 1,023 alia 937; 1,155
Samoa® 19 18 we o7) 115 we (78) (97) we
Solomon Islands 141 150 106 147 140 119 (6) 10 (13)
Tonga‘ 12 12 11 78 56 63 (66) (44) (52)
Tuvalu oy Sn a a a i Fe = ies
Vanuatu 34 25 33 76 76 76 (43) (51) (43)
TOTAL 995,945 1,064,542 1,276,855 866,269 943,540 1,175,292 129,676 121,002 101,563

... Data not available.

() Negative.

a Unless otherwise indicated, data are from the balance-of-payments statistics.
b FOB refers to free on board.

¢ Preliminary estimates.

d Refers to data from external trade.

e Refers to imports, cost, insurance, and freight.

f Refers to fiscal year.

Sources: Country sources; ADB data file; and International Monetary Fund, Balance of Payments Statistics on CD-ROM, February 2001.Statistical Annex 257

Cr

Table 40
INTERNATIONAL RESERVES AND RATIO OF RESERVES
TO IMPORTS, 1998-2000

 

Tigi McA Ratio to Imports”
($ million) (months)
1999
NIEs 311,678 358,215 395,255 8.0 8.5 75,
Hong Kong, China 89,625 96,256 107,560 Bye) 6.5 6.1
Korea, Rep. of 52,041 74,054 96,198 6.9 726) 7.3
Singapore? 74,928 76,843 80,127 9.4 8.8 75
Taipei,China 95,084 111,061 111,370 11.4 12.6 10.0
CARs, AZERBAJAN, and MONGOLIA 3,489 2393) 2,560 315 45 5.2:
Kazakhstan 1,965 2,002 2,096 Che) 4.3 5.0
Kyrgyz Republic 188 254 262 3.0 5.6 5.7
Tajikistan® 65 me ce Aa a ane
Turkmenistan af ze es Ts
Uzbekistan® 1,168 5 as 4.8 5 ae
Azerbaijan 449 674 680 | 5.6 5.4
Mongolia 103 137 202 PAPE 35)
PRC
China, People’s Rep. of 149,812 158,336 168,856 13.1 12.0 9:3)
SOUTHEAST ASIA 90,277 108,470 101,498 6.8 iD: 5.7
Cambodia‘ 324 393 502 3.6 4.0 vce
Indonesia 23,517 27,257 23,314 8.8 10.7 6.9
Lao PDR 117 105 140 2S 23 2.8
Malaysia 25,675 30,645 29,576 Sy. 6.0 4.6
Myanmar 326 Zhi. 280 1.6 1.4 v8
Philippines 10,781 15,012 15,026 44 5:9; 57
Thailand 29536 34,781 32,661 8.7 8.8 6.3
Viet Nam m0 re, te ~ on we
SOUTH ASIA 36,559 41,671 46,191 6.1 6.3 6.2
Afghanistan wee we wee wee we we
Bangladesh 1,928 1,623 1,516 3.4 oe 2.4
Bhutan? 250 274 283 22.0 20.3 18.3
India 29,833 35,069 40,188 TS 7.6 ET
Maldives‘ 119 12% 123 4.6 43 42
Nepal 805 887 981 6.7 8.2 7.6
Pakistan 1,646 2,054 2,061 in) 2.6 2.6
Sri Lanka? 1,980 1,636 1,039 4.0 33 1.7
PACIFIC DMCs 892 942 895 48 5.0 5.6
Cook Islands as s wa i ws oe
Fiji Islands¢ 385 429 410 a 7.9 10.3
Kiribati = ae wo vies
Marshall Islands ra iu vee tn rss ae
Micronesia, Fed. States of? 102 93 63 10.0 8.6 5.2
Nauru oaa pan wee - cag se
Papua New Guinea 221 233 268 2.4 2.6 3.1
Samoa® 61 68 64 7.6 7A vz
Solomon Islands‘ 49 51 35 4.0 44 35
Tonga® 29) De 17 44 ney 3.3
Tuvalu es ne = = ae exe
Vanuatu? 45 41 39 7.0 6.5 6.2
TOTAL 592,706 670,027 715,255 8.3 8.7 74

.. Data not available.

a Consists of gold, special drawing rights, reserve position with International Monetary Fund (IMF), and foreign exchange holdings; year-end figures, unless
otherwise specified.

b Merchandise imports from the balance-of-payments statistics were used for computing the ratio.

¢ Preliminary estimates.

d Refers to total reserves minus gold.

e Refers to gross official reserves of the country.

Sources: Country sources; and IMF, International Financial Statistics on CD-ROM, March 2001.258 ANNUAL REPORT 2000

Ce

 

Table 41
NET FLOWS OF FINANCIAL RESOURCES, 1997-1999
($ million)
Long-Term Debt Foreign Direct Investment Total Flows?
iy) Mi}-}33 1999 a} y/ a e}eh:} 1999 1998
NIEs 18,280 3,687 (12,003) 2,844 3,218 14,584 22,381 17,406 45,172
Hong Kong, China - - - - (2,197) 5,251 - 4,204 35,414
Korea, Rep. of 18,280 3,687 (12,003) 2,844 5,415 9/333 22,381 13,202 9,758
Singapore ~ = - - - - - ~ Taipei,China - -- -- - - - - - ~
CARs, AZERBAUAN, and MONGOLIA 2,461 2,611 1,517 2,958 2,650 2572 5,724 5,485 4,329
Kazakhstan 1,220 SE 124 A324 1,151 1,587 2,637 2,367 10729
Kyrgyz Republic 155 121 128 84 109 50 283 276 226
Tajikistan 13 (5) 6 20 18 24 88 70 84
Turkmenistan 791 466 (38) 108 130 180 902 602 150
Uzbekistan 157 629 925 285 200 190 461 844 1,129
Azerbaijan 34 140 224 1,115 1,023 510 1,178 1,194 783
Mongolia 92 60 148 25 9) 30 175 133 227
PRC
China, People’s Rep. of 12,450 (61) (148) 44,237 43,751 38,753 65,381 45,230 42,670
SOUTHEAST ASIA 21,180 3,334 (2,499) 17,264 12,717 6,986 39,022 20,796 10,438
Cambodia 36 52 35 204 121 126 410 343 282
Indonesia 6,433 (591) (3,872) 4,677 (356) (2,745) 11,602 (442) (4,928)
Lao PDR 120 78 61 ot 46 0 341 242 204
Malaysia 4,527 2,918 1531 5/137 2,163 1,553 9,182 5,689 3,616
Myanmar 74 135 (1) 387 315 216 532 517 245
Philippines 3,224 389 3,790 1,222 2,287 573 4,712 3,314 4,955
Thailand 6,096 (364) (4,101) 3,746 6,941 6,213 9,615 8,986 4,700
Viet Nam 670 716 58 1,800 1,200 1,050 2,628 2,147 1,365
SOUTH ASIA 3,557 6,412 948 4,899 3,542 2,910 12,523) 11,884 6,823
Afghanistan - - -- - -- - -- - Bangladesh 302 332 390 141 190 79; 1,033 1,182 1,247
Bhutan 12 53 3 0 0 0 44 82 41
India 691 4,176 (589) 3,577 2,635 2,169 6,927 7,629 B35
Maldives 2 19) 4 WU 12 12 33 44 32
Nepal 151 1123 76 23 12 4 313 251 227
Pakistan 1,984 1,195 992 716 500 370 3,124 1,870 e559
Sri Lanka 410 513 73 430 1193 177 1,049 826 366
PACIFIC DMCs 85 130 (80) 115) 226 293 439 613 589
Cook Islands - - - - - - - - ~
Fiji Islands (14) C17) (26) 16 75. (33) 16 vi (45)
Kiribati -- - - - - - - -- Marshall Islands - - - - - - - - Micronesia, Fed. States of -- - - - - - - - -Nauru co - - -- = - - Papua New Guinea 101 123 (56) 29) 110 297 316 441 568
Samoa (1) 0 (3) 4 3 0 11 15 2
Solomon Islands (2) 10 2 34 9 10 48 29 25
Tonga (1) 2 (1) 3 2 0 10 10 6
Tuvalu - - - - ~ - - - Vanuatu 0 12 5 30 27 20 37 45 32
TOTAL 58,013 16,113 (12,265) 72,317 66,103 66,098 145,470 101,413 110,021

-- Not reporting.

() Negative.

0 Magnitude is less than half of the unit employed.

a Refer to the sum of net resource flows on long-term debt (excluding the International Monetary Fund) plus net foreign direct investment, portfolio equity flows,
and official grants (excluding technical cooperation).

Sources: World Bank, Global Development Finance 2001 (advance release) on CD-ROM; and Hong Kong Monetary Authority, official communication, 29 March 2001.Statistical Annex 259

Ce ee

 

Table 42
TOTAL EXTERNAL DEBT AND DEBT SERVICE RATIO, 1997-1999
($ million)
Debt Outstanding? Service Payment” Debt Service Ratio” (%)
1997 1998 1999 acy a i}-}3} 1999 1997 1998 1999
NIEs 136,984 139,097 129,784 13,778 20,624 43,020 8.2 12.9 24.6
Hong Kong, China - ~ - - ~ - - - =
Korea, Rep. of 136,984 139,097 129,784 13,778 20,624 43,020 8.2 12.9 24.6
Singapore ~ ~ ~ - ~ - - ~ Taipei,China - - - - - ~ - -- CARs, AZERBAUJAN, and MONGOLIA 9,680 12,865 14,860 9) 1,586 2,198 8.0 12.2 16.5
Kazakhstan 4,078 6,087 6,182 483 989 1,364 6.2 14.5 19.4
Kyrgyz Republic 1,341 1,538 1,699 78 116 117. 11.4 19.0 21.8
Tajikistan 901 1,071 889 37 83 48 5.0 12.8 65
Turkmenistan - - - - - - - - ~
Uzbekistan 2,246 2,751 4,163 457 341 557 11.5 10.3 17.6
Azerbaijan 507 708 1,036 78 24 85 6.6 2.3 6.5
Mongolia 608 711 891 66 35 26 10.6 6.2 48
PRC
China, People’s Rep. of 146,697 154,599 154,223 18,445 18,435 20,655 8.5 8.6 9.0
SOUTHEAST ASIA 370,105 381,147 378,440 44,272 43,772 47,231 14.7 16.2 16.0
Cambodia 2,129 2,210 2,262 10 13 33 fet le) 29
Indonesia 136,173 150,884 150,096 19,736 18,302 17,848 30.0 31.7 30.3
Lao PDR 2,320 2,437 2,527 28 31 37 6.4 6.3 VT
Malaysia 47,228 44,769 45,939 7,109 6,275 4,695 74 74 48
Myanmar 5,063 5,609 5,999 116 93 o7) 74 5:3 Philippines 45,682 47,793 52,022 4,541 5,202 6,732 So 11:9 14.3
Thailand 109,731 104,943 96,335 11,818 12,763 16,380 15:5 18.4 22.0
Viet Nam 21,780 22,502 23,260 S13) 1,094 1,410 7.7 9.0 9.8
SOUTH ASIA 149,888 157,852 159,193 17,765 15,635 14,608 20.9 18.0 15.5
Afghanistan - - - - - - - - Bangladesh 15,125 16,376 17,534 708 681 788 10.6 on oT,
Bhutan 120 171 184 7 9 cf. oo) 6.3 48
India 94,320 97,639 94,393 12,415 12,094 10,109 213. 20.6 15.0
Maldives 171 194 217 29 16 18 6.9 37 3.9
Nepal 2,390 2,646 2,970 98 88 107 6.9 7.0 7.9)
Pakistan 30,069 32,296 34,423 4,083 2,304 3,045 36.0 19.8 30.5
Sri Lanka 7,692 8,531 9,472 426 443 535 6.4 6.4 79)
PACIFIC DMCs 3,208 3,365 3,491 583 239 274 13:2 6.5 7.1
Cook Islands - - - - - - - - Fiji Islands 219 193 163 36 35 39 2.8 35 3.5
Kiribati - - - - - - - - =

Marshall Islands - - ~ -- ea a = os =
Micronesia, Fed. States of - - = a a5 ce ae = =e

Nauru - - ~ - - - = - Papua New Guinea 27592 2,718 2,847 531 182 211 20.5 8.6 9.6
Samoa 156 180 192 5 5 7 3.8 39) 5A
Solomon Islands 135 149 160 6 12) 11 25 6.0 47
Tonga 57 62 64 4 4 4 77 7.3 10.8
Tuvalu ~ - - - - - - - Vanuatu 48 63 65 2 2 2 1.6 0.9 el

 

TOTAL 816,562 848,925 839,989 96,042 100,291 127,985 12.1 13.4 15.8

-- Not reporting.

a Debt outstanding is as of end of year, covering long- and short-term debt of public and private entities in the country, and the use of International Monetary
Fund (IMF) credit.

b Service payments include yearly payments on principal and interest on long-term debt, IMF repurchases and charges, and interest payments on short-term debt.
Debt service ratio is the percentage of service payments to exports of goods and services (including workers’ remittances).

Source: World Bank, Global Development Finance 2001 (advance release) on CD-ROM.260 ANNUAL REPORT 2000 SOCIAL INDICATORS

Ce ee

Table 43
POVERTY AND INEQUALITY INDICATORS

 

Population in Poverty (%)°* Income? Ratio
of Highest 20% Gini
Urban Rural to Lowest 20% Coefficient‘

NIEs

Hong Kong, China we we we 15.2 (1996) 0.52

Korea, Rep. of wee we wee 55: (1999) 0.32

Singapore a oe se me oe

Taipei,China 0.64 a re (1999) 5.5 (1998) 0.32
CARs, AZERBAUAN, and MONGOLIA

Kazakhstan 34.6 30.0 39.0 (1996) 6.3 (1996) 0.35

Kyrgyz Republic 51.0 28.5 64.5 (1997) 9.6 (1997) 0.40

Tajikistan 83.0 te ae (1999) a te

Turkmenistan ne Es ne

Uzbekistan 22.0° eR a (1996)

Azerbaijan 68.1 ne ae (1995) a re

Mongolia 35.6 34.1! 32.6 (1998) we (1998) 0.35
PRC

China, People’s Rep. of 4.6 ee ay, (1998) 5 (1998) 0.32
SOUTHEAST ASIA

Cambodia 36.1 29.99 40.1 (1997) 5.4 (1997) 0.37

Indonesia 23.4 19.4 26.0 (1999) 4.0 (1999) 0.31

Lao PDR re oe oe ae ae

Malaysia 8.0 we we (1998) 12.0 (1995) 0.49

Myanmar we we we we we

Philippines 36.8 21.5 50.7 (1997) 9.0 (1997) 0.49

Thailand” 12.9 15 17.2 (1998) 9.7' (1999) 0.44

Viet Nam 37.0 9.0 45.0 (1998) 5.5 (1998) 0.35
SOUTH ASIA

Afghanistan ee es A oe oe

Bangladesh 47.5 49.7 47.1 (1995-1996) 8.8 (1995-1996) 0.43

Bhutan! Ae iS ies ms aA

India Rs A a Si (1997) 0.38

Maldives we we we te

Nepal 42.0 23.0 44.0 (1996) 5.9) (1995-1996) 0.37

Pakistan‘ 32.6 25.9 34.8 (1998-1999) TA (1996-1997) 0.40

Sri Lanka‘ 26.7 13.4 28.7 (1995-1996) 11.4 (1995-1996) 0.48
PACIFIC DMCs

Cook Islands

Fiji Islands

Kiribati

Marshall Islands Ae a is Pe a3

Micronesia, Fed. States of! 39.5 Ae eS (1998) ae (1998) 0.41

Nauru oe oe ce os we

Papua New Guinea 21.7 we we (1996) 12.6 (1996) 0.51

Samoa‘ 48.0" = es (1997) 17.0 (1997) oe

Solomon Islands 5 ms

Tonga

Tuvalu

Vanuatu

... Data not available.

a Refers to headcount ratio or proportion of the population falling below the poverty line (in each country) to total population unless otherwise specified.

b Refers to income or expenditure.

c Refers to the same year as that of the Income Ratio and calculated based on income or expenditure. A value of zero implies perfect equality while a value
of 1 implies perfect inequality.

d Defined as percent of low-income population to total population.

e Based on weighted calculation using equivalence scales.

f Refers to Ulaanbaatar (capital city) only. Poverty incidence in aimag (provincial) capitals is 45.1 percent.

g Urban areas do not include Phnom Penh where poverty incidence in 1997 is 11.1 percent.

h Urban and rural areas refer to municipal areas and villages, respectively. Poverty incidence in sanitary districts is 7.2 percent.

i Data collection period was from June to September 1999.

j Data from the Household Income and Expenditure Survey 2000 are being analyzed and a poverty profile will be produced.

k Data on population in poverty refer to percentage of poor households.

| ADB estimate. Government may have its own estimate.

m Refers to food poverty.

Sources: Country sources; United Nations Development Programme, web site (http://www.undp.org); and World Bank, World Development Indicators 2000.Statistical Annex 261

ee

Table 44
ENVIRONMENT INDICATORS

 

Average Annual Rate National Carbon Dioxide GDP per Unit Population with
DCMT MCSE arr act Buse Sele ye tee OE Access to
(as % of (as % of (as % of total (per capita (22 ae 1 <e) Fm ELcig
land area) forest area) land area) metric tons) _ oil equivalent) (%)
1995 1990-1995 1997 ah] 1997 a ic)ey te
NIEs
Hong Kong, China 16.6 0.0f 33.7 we we 100
Korea, Rep. of Tie 0.2 6.9 9.0 3.9 93
Singapore 6.6 0.0f 4.4 21.6 2.9 1009
Taipei,China 58.5 (2.4) 12.6 Bs as 90"
CARs, AZERBAUJAN, and MONGOLIA
Kazakhstan 3.9 (1.9) 20 10.9 1.8 93
Kyrgyz Republic 3.8 0.0' 3.6 ke 3.8 79
Tajikistan 2.9 0.0f 4.2 1.0 1.6 60
Turkmenistan 8.0 0.0f : 74 1.0 74
Uzbekistan 22.0 (227) 24 4.1 sina 90
Azerbaijan 11.4 0.0 5.5 3.9 1.3 si
Mongolia 6.0 0.0f 10.3 3.6 wn 45
PRC
China, People’s Rep. of 14.3 0.1 6.4 2.8 35 67
SOUTHEAST ASIA
Cambodia 55.7 1.6 16.2 0.0 30
Indonesia 60.6 1.0 o7 1:2 45 74
Lao PDR D3s9) 1.2 on 0.1 wee 44
Malaysia 47.1 2.4 45 5.6 4.0 78
Myanmar 413 1.4 0.3 0.2 Pe 60
Philippines 227, 3.5 4.9 0.9 Tee: 85
Thailand 22.8 2.6 13.1 3.4 47 81
Viet Nam 28.0 1.4 371 0.5 87 45
SOUTH ASIA
Afghanistan De 6.8 0.3 we = 6
Bangladesh 7.8 0.8 0.8 0.2 6.8 95
Bhutan 58.6 0.3 212 ws os 58
India 21.9 0.0! 4.8 ial 4.2 81
Maldives i se es is ae 60
Nepal 337 el 7.8 0.1 BF a
Pakistan 23 Oe) 4.8 0.8 3.5 79
Sri Lanka 27.8 ql 13:3 0.4 7.6 pt
PACIFIC DMCs
Cook Islands He ek i aes es 95
Fiji Islands 45.7 0.4 1.0 = me 77
Kiribati 0.0f 0.0! ve ve we ws
Marshall Islands ae we we we we 82
Micronesia, Fed. States of we rae we wee ee 22
Nauru ee ose me es = oe
Papua New Guinea 81.6 0.4 0.0f 0.5 HS 41
Samoa 48.1 tal ee me a 68
Solomon Islands 85.4 0.2 we we we ae
Tonga 0.0! ts te ts we 95
Tuvalu ae we we te we 100
Vanuatu 73.8 0.8 Ps he ae 77

() Negative.
... Data not available.
Positive figures indicate deforestation rates while negative figures indicate reforestation rates.
Refer to all protected areas at least 1,000 hectares listed in categories I-V of the International Union for Conservation of Nature and Natural Resources.
Refer to carbon dioxide emissions from fossil fuel burning and cement manufacturing.
Refers to purchasing power parity.
Refers to the most recent year available during the period 1990-1998.
The number 0.0 means the magnitude is zero or is less than half of the unit employed and not known more precisely.
Refers to years or periods other than those specified in the column heading, differ from the standard definition, or refer to only part of a country.
Refers to percentage of population served by tap water.
Sources: Food and Agriculture Organization, State of the World's Forest 1999; United Nations Children's Fund, The State of the World's Children 2000, web site
(http://www.unicef.org/sowc00); World Bank, World Development Indicators 2000; World Resources Institute, World Resources 1998/99; DirectorateGeneral of Budget, Accounting and Statistics (DGBAS), Statistical Yearbook 2000 and past issues; DGBAS, Social Indicators, 1999 for Taipei,China; and
Hong Kong Monetary Authority, official communication, 29 March 2001.

sarmance:262 ANNUAL REPORT 2000

Ce

Table 45
HUMAN DEVELOPMENT INDICATORS

Adult Literacy Rate* Gross Enrollment Ratio (%)
(%) Primary School Secondary School

1985” eee cee ey ee ere
Female Male Female Male Female Male Female Male Female Male Female Male

 

NIEs
Hong Kong, China 82 95 88 96 105 106 100 100 73 68 Ve 76
Korea, Rep. of 95: 98 96 99 98 96 99) 98 91 93 98 98
Singapore 73 94 89 oF 106 110 97 98 61 63 70 74
Taipei,China 85 96 Sil 98 100 OS 101 2) oil 89 101 98
CARs, AZERBAUAN, and MONGOLIA
Kazakhstan 96 99 ate a rae Wee 100 100 104 102 81 78
Kyrgyz Republic 96 99 98 99 122123 97 98 107. 111 62 79)
Tajikistan OF; 99 98 99 be ce 94 97 oe ae 74 83
Turkmenistan re Bs ne ey oe me re me oa oa es a
Uzbekistan 96 og O98 99 85 88 85 86 SW 88 100
Azerbaijan we we 100 100 wee oe 105 108 wee a 81 73
Mongolia 68 84 98 98 102 O89 104 103 95 87 72) 60
PRC
China, People’s Rep. of 61 83 78 91 114 132 123, 123 33: 46 66 74
SOUTHEAST ASIA
Cambodia ae es 61 83 a ee 104 123 22 37 A 31
Indonesia 66 83 85 93 114 120 110 115 35 47 a 77
Lao PDR 33 60 44 69 100 121 101 123 i) 28 23 34
Malaysia 68 84 78 89 100 101 101 101 By) 53 69 59
Myanmar 72) 87 78 89 96 101 az 1122 22 24 30 29
Philippines 91 cy 94 95 107. 108 1135 its: 65 64 78 TA
Thailand 85 93 91 96 97 100 we a 28 30 on we
Viet Nam 83 93 91 oi 100 106 111 116 41 44 46 48
SOUTH ASIA
Afghanistan 8 37 15 47 3 27 32 64 5 11 12 32
Bangladesh 20 44 43 5g 52 72 82 88 11 27
Bhutan 19 46 28 56 se we we ce os we we we
India 29 59 41 67 80 111 90 109 26 48 Bo) 59
Maldives 2: 91 93 93 eae rs 127. 130 as 2s 60 Do
Nepal 9 34 14 41 50 108 106 141 12 38 30 48
Pakistan 18 42 2 Sy 30 56 79 59 10 24 40 55
Sri Lanka 82 92 87 93 101. 104 108 110 66 60 78 72
PACIFIC DMCs
Cook Islands va a = ee mee ne re ws oa ee re a
Fiji Islands 83 90 89 94 122 122 see an 52 51 65 64
Kiribati a i = <A — _
Marshall Islands on ee 97 97
Micronesia, Fed. States of
Nauru on oe on om a en on co _ oR _ eG
Papua New Guinea 52 74 63 81 60 71 74 87 8 15 11 17;
Samoa nee net i 28s 107. 102 100 101 71 63 66 Do)
Solomon Islands ae i as es 71 86 89 103 14 24 14 21
Tonga oe oe oe nee ee ae ee. ne nes
Tuvalu re Bs eh ney or me me me eas oe
Vanuatu = ae ae ae ae ee ae oe 11 17

.. Data not available.

a Adult literacy rate refers to population of 15 years old and over.

b Data may refer to a year from 1980 to 1989 other than, but nearest to, the reference year.

¢ Data may refer to a year from 1990 to 1999 other than, but nearest to, the reference year.

d Data refer to the most recent estimates reported by the national authorities, and which were not adjusted for underreporting or misclassification of maternal

deaths.

e Data refer to the most recent year available during the period specified.

Sources: Country sources; Economic and Social Commission for Asia and the Pacific, Asia-Pacific in Figures 1999; United Nations Development Programme, Human
Development Report 2000; United Nations Educational, Scientific and Cultural Organization, web site (http://www.unesco.org); United Nations Children's
Fund, The State of the World's Children 2001; and World Bank, World Development Indicators 2000.Statistical Annex 263

ee

 

Life Expectancy at Birth Wye CNN ae or Maternal Ceara TU eee Co
(years) (per 1,000 live births) Neel iisaeiies ee ita?) ACT)
—= [== 1999 (per 100,000 live births) Rate (%) ney cave
Female Male Female Male Infant Under 5 1980-1999 BE]: S701] a A]

NIEs
79) 74 82 77 3 bes a sm bee Hong Kong, China
v3) 65 76 69 5 Sy 20 cee we Korea, Rep. of
76 72 80 76 4 4 6 we we Singapore
76 71 78 aD: 7 9 ee Ge Taipei,China
CARs, AZERBAUAN, and MONGOLIA
7) 62 71 60 BD 42 70 66 98 Kazakhstan
71 64 7 63 55 65 65 60 98 Kyrgyz Republic
70 70 70 65 54 74 65 a 79 Tajikistan
me fe 69 62 52 71 65 a 96 Turkmenistan
71 65 73 68 45 58 72\| 56 98 Uzbekistan
we we 15 68 35 45 43 we 100 Azerbaijan
60 58 68 65 61 80 150 42 93 Mongolia
PRC
70 68 72 68 33) 41 55 91 67 China, People’s Rep. of
SOUTHEAST ASIA
47 45 oo, 52: 86 122 470 22) 34 Cambodia
58 54 68 64 38 D2. 450 55 56 Indonesia
48 45 55 53 93) 111 650 cs ss Lao PDR
7) 68 as 70 8 5 39 ea 96 Malaysia
55 51 62 59 72) 12: 230 33 56 Myanmar
65 61 a 66 31 42 170 47 56 Philippines
67 63 D2 68 26 30 44 72 oe Thailand
66 62 70 65 3 40 160 75, iB Viet Nam
SOUTH ASIA
41 40 46 45 165 257 vs ea = Afghanistan
55 56 5g) Do 58 89 440 54 13 Bangladesh
49 46 63 60 80 107 380 we we Bhutan
56 55 63 63 70 98 410 Ea a India
56 58 64 66 60 83 350 7, a Maldives
47 49 58 58 IS 104 540 30 9 Nepal
54 54 63 63 84 112 wee 24 13) Pakistan
71 67 76 71 17 19: 60 66 94 Sri Lanka
PACIFIC DMCs
68 68 74 71 26 30 ae ma a Cook Islands
71 67 75 Yh 18 22. 38 ee A Fiji Islands
54 52 65 59 D3) q wee we we Kiribati
62 59 69 66 63 92 st tes oes Marshall Islands
64 62 67 64 20 24 es ow me Micronesia, Fed. States of
62 62 64 Dr 25 30 wee ae ws Nauru
33) 51 oo 58 72) 112 370 26 DS Papua New Guinea
64 62 74 70 21 26 ne 30 as Samoa
62 60 74 70 ae. 26 550 aS os Solomon Islands
64 61 71 65 18 22 wee we wee Tonga
59) 59 70 64 40 56 He Te os Tuvalu

BT 55 70 66 37 46 = Le ee VanuatuAppendixes

1 Resolutions of the Board of Governors Adopted in 2000
2 Board of Governors

3 Board of Directors and Voting Groups

4 Committees of the Board of Directors

5 ADB Institute Advisory Council

6 Organizational Structure

7 Management, Senior Staff, and Regional and Resident
Representatives

8 Former ADB Presidents and Vice-Presidents

9 Summary of Budget for 2001

265

266

268

269

269

270

271

274

275Appendixes 265

Appendix 1
RESOLUTIONS OF THE BOARD OF GOVERNORS ADOPTED IN 2000

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Resolution No. Subject Date Adopted
267 Membership of Portugal 6 March
268 Financial Statements and Independent Auditors’ Reports 8 May
269 Allocation of Net Income 8 May
270 Resources of ADB 8 May
271 Place and Date of the Forthcoming Annual Meeting (2002) 8 May
272 Decisions Relating to Section 5 of the By-Laws 20 November
273 Amendment to Section 7(B)(a) of the By-Laws 20 November
274 Amendment to Section 7(C)(b) of the By-Laws 20 November
275 Decision Relating to Section 7(C)(a)(ii) of the By-Laws 20 November

 

276 Seventh Replenishment of the Asian Development Fund 13 December266 ANNUAL REPORT 2000

Appendix 2

BOARD OF GOVERNORS
(as of 30 March 2001)

PAUL H. O'NEILL
(United States)

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

(Chairperson)
KEAT CHHON JOHN EHSA
(Cambodia) (Federated States of Micronesia)

(Vice-Chairperson) (Vice-Chairperson)
OES) ase GOVERNOR ALTERNATE GOVERNOR
AFGHANISTAN (vacant) (vacant)
AUSTRALIA Peter Costello Kay Patterson
AUSTRIA Karl-Heinz Grasser! Thomas Wieser
AZERBAIJAN Avaz Alekperov Vadim Khubanov
BANGLADESH Shah A.M.S. Kibria Masihur Rahman
BELGIUM Didier Reynders Gino Alzetta
BHUTAN Lyonpo Yeshey Zimba Sonam Wangchuk
CAMBODIA Keat Chhon Ouk Rabun
CANADA John Manley Bruce Montador
CHINA, PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF Xiang Huaicheng Jin Liqun
COOK ISLANDS Terepai Maoate Kevin Carr

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

DENMARK Ellen Margrethe Loj Torben Brylle

FIJI ISLANDS Jone Yavala Kubuabola® Savenaca Narube*
FINLAND Satu Hassi Pertti Majanen®

FRANCE Laurent Fabius® Jean-Pierre Jouyet’
GERMANY Uschi Eid Michael Réskau

HONG KONG, CHINA Donald Tsang Joseph Yam

INDIA Yashwant Sinha Ajit Kumar®

INDONESIA Prijadi Praptosuhardjo? Syahril Sabirin

ITALY Antonio Fazio Mario Draghi

JAPAN Kiichi Miyazawa Masaru Hayami
KAZAKHSTAN Zhaxybek Kulekeyev'° Erbolat Dosayev!!
KIRIBATI Beniamina Tinga Bureti Williams

KOREA, REPUBLIC OF Nyum Jin!” Chol-Hwan Chon
KYRGYZ REPUBLIC Temirbek Akmataliev'* Urkaly Toktomovich Isaev
LAO PEOPLE'S DEMOCRATIC REPUBLIC BounNhang Vorachith Phoupheth Khamphounvong'*

 

MALAYSIA

Tun Daim Zainuddin

Dato Dr. Samsudin Bin Hitam!®

 

NADRWN

Succeeded Rudolph Edlinger in March 2000.
Succeeded Lloyd Axworthy in October 2000.

8
a

Succeeded Mahendra Pal Chaudhry in August 2000. 10

Succeeded Jone Y. Kubuabola in August 2000.
Succeeded Kirsti Lintonen in November 2000.

Succeeded Christian Sautter in April 2000.
Succeeded Jean Lemierre in July 2000.

11
12
13,
14
15

Succeeded E.A.S. Sarma in November 2000.

Succeeded Bambang Sudibyo in August 2000.

Succeeded Pavlov Alexander Sergeyevich in February 2001.
Succeeded Zhaxybek Kulekeyev in February 2001.
Succeeded Hun-Jai Lee in August 2000.

Succeeded Sultan Mederov in January 2001.

Succeeded Phiane Philakone in April 2000.

Succeeded Dato Othman Mohd. Rijal in June 2000.CONTINUED
UES I aS GOVERNOR
MALDIVES Ismail Shafeeu

Appendixes 267

ALTERNATE GOVERNOR
Ibrahim Mohamed

 

MARSHALL ISLANDS

Michael Konelios

Amon Tibon!®

 

MICRONESIA, FEDERATED STATES OF John Ehsa

Lorin Robert

 

MONGOLIA Ch. Ulaan!’

O. Chuluunbat!®

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

MYANMAR Khin Maung Thein Soe Lin
NAURU Kinza Clodumar David Adeang
NEPAL Ram Sharan Mahat!? Bimal P. Koirala?°
NETHERLANDS Gerrit Zalm Eveline L. Herfkens
NEW ZEALAND Michael Cullen Alan Bollard
NORWAY Sigrun Mogedal?! Age Grutle
PAKISTAN Shaukat Aziz Nawid Ahsan
PAPUA NEW GUINEA Mekere Morauta Koiari Tarata
PHILIPPINES Alberto G. Romulo”? Rafael Buenaventura
SAMOA Misa Telefoni Retzlaff’> Hinauri Petana”*
SINGAPORE Richard Hu Tsu Tau Lim Siong Guan
SOLOMON ISLANDS Snyder Rini?® Leslie Teama?°
SPAIN Rodrigo de Rato y Figaredo Juan Costa Climent?’
SRI LANKA Chandrika Bandaranaike Kumaratunga __P.B. Jayasundara
SWEDEN Gun-Britt Andersson Lennart Bage
SWITZERLAND Oscar Knapp Rudolph Dannecker
TAIPEI,CHINA Fai-nan Perng Chun Chen
TAJIKISTAN Murotali Muhammadievich Maruf Saifiev??
Alimardonov’®
THAILAND Somkid Jatusripitak*° Somchainuk Engtrakul*!
TONGA Siosiua T.T. ‘Utoikamanu** Aisake Eke
TURKEY Faik Oztrak*? Aydin Kara6z*4
TURKMENISTAN Orazmurad Begmuradov®® Seitbay Kandymov*®
TUVALU Lagitupu Tuilimu Afelee Falema Pita

 

UNITED KINGDOM Clare Short

Chris Mullin?”

 

UNITED STATES Paul H. O’Neill°®

Alan P. Larson?

 

 

 

UZBEKISTAN Bakhtier S. Khamidov Rustam Sadikovich Azimov
VANUATU Stevens Morking Iatika Jeffery Wilfred
VIET NAM Le Duc Thuy Duong Thu Huong
16 Succeeded Smith Michael in November 2000. 28 Succeeded Anvarsho Muzafarov in April 2000.
17 Succeeded J. Unenbat in September 2000. 29 Succeeded Sharif Rahimov in April 2000.
18 Succeeded D. Makhval in September 2000. 30 Succeeded Tarrin Nimmanahaeminda in February 2001.
19 Succeeded Mahesh Acharya in February 2001. Mahesh Acharya 31 Succeeded Suphachai Phisitvanich in December 2000.
succeeded Ram Sharan Mahat in March 2000. 32 Succeeded K. Tutoatasi Fakafanua in January 2001.
20 Succeeded R. B. Bhattarai in June 2000. 33 Succeeded Selcuk Demiralp in March 2001.
21 Succeeded Leif Lunde in April 2000. 34 Succeeded Ferhat Emil in February 2001.
22 Succeeded Jose T. Pardo in January 2001. 35 Appointed in October 2000.
23 Succeeded Tuilaepa S. Malielegaoi in March 2001. 36 Appointed in October 2000.
24 Succeeded Epa Tuioti in May 2000. 37 Succeeded George Foulkes in February 2001.
25 Succeeded Alpha Kimata in August 2000. 38 Succeeded Lawrence H. Summers in February 2001.
26 Succeeded George Kiriau in January 2001. 39 Appointed in May 2000.

27 Succeeded Elena Pisonero Ruiz in June 2000.268 ANNUAL REPORT 2000

Appendix 3
BOARD OF DIRECTORS AND VOTING GROUPS
(as of 30 March 2001)
DIRECTOR ALTERNATE DIRECTOR MEMBERS REPRESENTED!

Jusuf Anwar? John Austin Cook Islands; Fiji Islands; Indonesia;
Kyrgyz Republic; New Zealand;
Samoa; Tonga

 

 

 

N. Cinnamon Dornsife? Chantale Yok-Min Wong* United States

Uwe Henrich® Cahit Akinci® Austria; Germany; Turkey;
United Kingdom

John S. Lockhart Miranda Rawlinson’ Australia; Azerbaijan; Cambodia;

Hong Kong, China; Kiribati;
Federated States of Micronesia;
Nauru; Solomon Islands; Tuvalu

 

Othman Jusoh® Ram Binod Bhattarai? Malaysia; Myanmar; Nepal;
Singapore; Thailand

 

 

 

 

 

 

Julian H. Payne Erik Johnsson Canada; Denmark; Finland;
Netherlands; Norway; Sweden

C. Ramachandran Vacant!° Bangladesh; Bhutan; India;
Lao People’s Democratic Republic;
Tajikistan

Patricia Z. Riingen Kh. Zaheer Ahmed Kazakhstan; Maldives; Marshall
Islands; Mongolia; Pakistan;
Philippines

Naoyuki Shinohara Yasuro Narita Japan

Patrick Thomas Jose Miguel Cortes!! Belgium; France; Italy; Spain;
Switzerland

Jeung-Hyun Yoon Barry Holloway Republic of Korea; Papua New

Guinea; Sri Lanka; Taipei,China;
Uzbekistan; Vanuatu; Viet Nam

 

Zhao Xiaoyu Li Buqun People’s Republic of China

1 In alphabetical order within each group.

2 Succeeded Soegito Sastromidjojo on 1 July 2000.

3 Succeeded Linda Tsao Yang on | June 2000.

4 Succeeded N. Cinnamon Dornsife on 19 June 2000.
5 Succeeded John Millett on 1 July 2000.

6 Succeeded Uwe Henrich on | July 2000.

7 Succeeded Stephen Baker on 12 March 2001.

8 Succeeded Prasit Ujjin on 1 August 2000.

9 Succeeded Sim Cheng Huat on 16 July 2000.

10 M. Faizur Razzaque resigned on 31 December 2000.
11 Succeeded Manuel Sanchez Melero on 1 August 2000.Appendixes 269

Appendix 4

COMMITTEES OF THE BOARD OF DIRECTORS
(as of 31 December 2000)

STANDING COMMITTEES

 

 

 

 

 

AUDIT COMMITTEE BUDGET REVIEW COMMITTEE INSPECTION COMMITTEE?
Julian H. Payne (Chairperson) C. Ramachandran (Chairperson) Kh. Zaheer Ahmed
Jusuf Anwar N. Cinnamon Dornsife Barry Holloway
Uwe Henrich Naoyuki Shinohara Vacant
John S. Lockhart Patrick Thomas Vacant
Othman Jusoh Jeung-Hyun Yoon Vacant
Patricia Z. Riingen Zhao Xiaoyu Vacant

WORKING COMMITTEE
WORKING GROUP ON THE 2000 ANNUAL REPORT
John Austin (Chairperson)
Othman Jusoh
Patricia Z. Riingen
Erik Johnsson
Yasuro Narita

Chantale Yok-Min Wong

a Positions to be filled in 2001.

 

 

 

 

 

Appendix 5

ADB INSTITUTE ADVISORY COUNCIL
(as of 31 December 2000)

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Magnus Blomstr6m Sweden

Ronald Duncan Australia

William P. Fuller United States

Yujiro Hayami Japan

Y. Venugopal Reddy India

Zhang Xiao Qiang People’s Republic of China

 

 

Chief Economist Asian Development Bank270 ANNUAL REPORT 2000

Appendix 6

ORGANIZATIONAL STRUCTURE

(as of 30 March 2001)

BOARD OF GOVERNORS
BOARD OF DIRECTORS

 

VICE-PRESIDENT
(Region West)

VICE-PRESIDENT
(Region East)

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

RESIDENT MISSION

BANGLADESH PRC
RESIDENT MISSION RESIDENT MISSION
CAMBODIA INDONESIA
RESIDENT MISSION RESIDENT MISSION

INDIA KAZAKHSTAN
RESIDENT MISSION RESIDENT MISSION
Lao KYRGYZ
RESIDENT MISSION RESIDENT MISSION
NEPAL MONGOLIA
RESIDENT MISSION RESIDENT MISSION
PAKISTAN PHILIPPINES
RESIDENT MISSION COUNTRY OFFICE
SRI LANKA UZBEKISTAN

RESIDENT MISSION

 

 

 

 

 

VIET NAM
RESIDENT MISSION

 

 

 

 

 

it}

SOUTH PACIFIC
REGIONAL MISSION

 

 

 

 

VICE-PRESIDENT
ACaTaF- Tate Oe Late MNO LUUTIRTES CEL Ce)

 

 

PROJECT
MANAGEMENT UNIT

 

 

 

 
 
 
 

 

EUROPEAN
REPRESENTATIVE OFFICE

 

 

 

JAPANESE
REPRESENTATIVE OFFICE

 

 

 

 

NORTH AMERICAN
REPRESENTATIVE OFFICEAppendix 7

Appendixes 271

MANAGEMENT, SENIOR STAFF, AND REGIONAL AND RESIDENT REPRESENTATIVES

(as of 30 March 2001)
OFFICE OF THE PRESIDENT

 

President

Tadao Chino

 

Special Advisor to the President

J. Antonio M. Quila

 

Head, Regional Economic Monitoring Unit

Yoshihiro Iwasaki

 

Manager, Regional Economic Monitoring Unit

Pradumna B. Rana

 

OFFICES OF THE VICE-PRESIDENTS

 

Vice-President (Region West)

Myoung-Ho Shin

 

Vice-President (Finance and Administration)

John Lintjer

 

Vice-President (Region East)

Joseph B. Eichenberger

 

Manager, INTEGRA Project

Silvio R. Cattonar

 

Manager, Project Management Unit

Yoo Jin Yoon

 

OFFICE OF THE SECRETARY

 

Secretary

Bindu N. Lohani

 

Assistant Secretary

Ferdinand P. Mesch

 

OFFICE OF THE GENERAL COUNSEL

 

General Counsel

Gerald A. Sumida

 

Deputy General Counsel

Eisuke Suzuki

 

Assistant General Counsel

Richard Eyre

 

Assistant General Counsel

Philip Daltrop

 

Assistant General Counsel

Vacant

 

OFFICE OF THE GENERAL AUDITOR

 

General Auditor

Peter E. Pedersen

 

 

 

Manager Rakesh Gupta
OPERATIONS EVALUATION DEPARTMENT
Chief Vladimir Bohun

 

Manager (Operations Evaluation Division East)

Peter C. Darjes!

 

Manager (Operations Evaluation Division West)

Graham M. Walter

 

STRATEGY AND POLICY DEPARTMENT

 

Director

Shoji Nishimoto

 

Manager (Strategy, Planning and Policy Coordination Division)

Jean-Pierre A. Verbiest

 

 

 

Manager (Poverty Reduction Unit) Vacant
OFFICE OF ENVIRONMENT AND SOCIAL DEVELOPMENT
Chief Rolf Zelius

 

Manager (Environment Division)

J. Warren Evans

 

Manager (Social Development Division)

Anita Kelles-Viitanen

 

PROGRAMS DEPARTMENT (EAST)

 

Director

G.H.P.B. van der Linden

 

Deputy Director

Zhang Yuejiao

 

Programs Manager (Division East 1—People's Republic of China; Hong Kong, China;

 

Indonesia; Republic of Korea; Malaysia; Mongolia; Singapore; Taipei,China)

Ayumi Konishi

 

Programs Manager (Division East 2—Azerbaijan; Kazakhstan;

 

Kyrgyz Republic; Turkmenistan; Tajikistan; Uzbekistan)

Kunio Senga

 

Director, People’s Republic of China Resident Mission

Bruce Murray

 

Director, Indonesia Resident Mission

Jan P. M. van Heeswijk

 

Resident Representative, Kazakhstan Resident Mission

Hong Wang

 

Resident Representative, Kyrgyz Resident Mission

J.C. Alexander

 

Resident Representative, Mongolia Resident Mission

Barry J. Hitchcock

 

Resident Representative, Uzbekistan Resident Mission

Vacant

 

Chief, Philippines Country Office

Guinter Hecker

 

1 Appointed as Resident Representative, Uzbekistan Resident Mission effective upon assumption of office.272 ANNUAL REPORT 2000

CONTINUED

 

AGRICULTURE AND SOCIAL SECTORS DEPARTMENT (EAST)

 

Director

Nihal Amerasinghe

 

Deputy Director

Hans-Jiiergen Springer

 

Manager (Agriculture and Rural Development Division)

Bradford R. Philips

 

Manager (Education, Health and Population Division)

William M. Fraser

 

Manager (Forestry and Natural Resources Division)

Muhammad A. Mannan

 

Manager (Water Supply, Urban Development and Housing Division)

Asad Ali Shah

 

INFRASTRUCTURE, ENERGY AND FINANCIAL SECTORS DEPARTMENT (EAST)

 

Director

Vacant

 

Deputy Director

Khaja H. Moinuddin

 

Manager (Energy Division)

H. Satish Rao

 

Manager (Financial Sector and Industry Division)

Shamshad Akhtar

 

Manager (Transport and Communications Division)

Jin Koo Lee

 

OFFICE OF PACIFIC OPERATIONS

 

(Cook Islands; Fiji Islands; Kiribati; Marshall Islands; Federated States of Micronesia;

 

Nauru; Papua New Guinea; Samoa; Solomon Islands; Tonga; Tuvalu; Vanuatu)

 

Director

Basudev Dahal

 

Manager (Pacific Operations Division, Area A)

Robert Y. Siy, Jr.

 

Manager (Pacific Operations Division, Area B)

Cedric D. Saldanha

 

Regional Representative, South Pacific Regional Mission

Jeffry R. Stubbs

 

OFFICE OF COFINANCING OPERATIONS

 

Chief

Jeremy H. Hovland

 

Assistant Chief

Woo Chull Chung

 

CENTRAL OPERATIONS SERVICES OFFICE

 

Chief

James E. Rockett

 

Manager (Consulting Services Division)

Sarojkumar Thuraisingham

 

Manager (Project Coordination and Procurement Division)

Francis Sharpley

 

PROGRAMS DEPARTMENT (WEST)

 

 

 

 

Director Yoshihiro Iwasaki
Deputy Director Rajat M. Nag
Programs Manager (Division West 1—Afghanistan, Maldives; Nepal; Pakistan; Sri Lanka) S.H. Rahman
Programs Manager (Division West 2—Bangladesh; Bhutan; India) Kazu Sakai

 

Programs Manager (Division West 3—Cambodia; Lao People's Democratic

 

Republic; Myanmar; Thailand; Viet Nam)

C.R. Rajendran

 

Director, Bangladesh Resident Mission

Phiphit Suphaphiphat

 

Resident Representative, Cambodia Resident Mission

Urooj Malik

 

Resident Representative, India Resident Mission

Frank J. Polman

 

Resident Representative, Lao Resident Mission

Paul V. Turner

 

Resident Representative, Nepal Resident Mission

Richard W.A. Vokes

 

Resident Representative, Pakistan Resident Mission

Marshuk Ali Shah

 

Resident Representative, Sri Lanka Resident Mission

John R. Cooney

 

 

 

Resident Representative, Viet Nam Resident Mission John Samy
AGRICULTURE AND SOCIAL SECTORS DEPARTMENT (WEST)
Director Akira Seki

 

Deputy Director

M.E. Tusneem

 

Senior Advisor

Philippe Benedic

 

Manager (Agriculture and Rural Development Division)

Frederick C. Roche

 

Manager (Education, Health and Population Division)

Edward M. Haugh, Jr.

 

Manager (Forestry and Natural Resources Division)

Toru Shibuichi

 

Manager (Water Supply, Urban Development and Housing Division)

Arjun Thapan

 

Advisor (Education)

Peter L. FedonAppendixes 273

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

CONTINUED
Director Christine Wallich
Deputy Director Preben Nielsen
Senior Advisor Zhu Xian?
Manager (Energy Division) Khalid Rahman
Manager (Financial Sector and Industry Division) Thomas Crouch
Manager (Transport and Communications Division) Tadashi Kondo
Head Christine Wallich
Manager Bruce A. Purdue
Chief Economist Arvind aaa
Senior Economics Advisor Charles Adams
Assistant Chief Economist (Economic Analysis and Research Division) Brahm Prakash
Assistant Chief Economist (Project Economic Evaluation Division) David Edwards
Assistant Chief Economist (Statistics and Data Systems Division) V.N. Gnanathurai
Director Masakazu Sakaguchi
Deputy Director Sandra A. Lawrence
Manager (Budget and Management Services Division) T.L. de Jonghe
Manager (Compensation and Benefits Division) Amarjit Singh Wasan
Manager (Human Resources Division) Robert L.T. Dawson
Chief Zhang Zhixiang
Manager (Facilities Management Division) Farrokh E. Kapadia
Manager (General Services Division) Normin S, Pakpahan
Controller Ping-Yung Chiu
Assistant Controller (Accounting Division) Ronny E. Budiman
Assistant Controller (Disbursement Operations Division) Yoong-Soo Seo
Treasurer Shinji Ichishima
Deputy Treasurer Ifzal Ali
Assistant Treasurer (Funding Division) Peter M. Balon
Assistant Treasurer (Investments Division) Jelle C. Mann
Assistant Treasurer (Risk Management Division) Philip C. Erquiaga
Assistant Treasurer (Treasury Services Division) David R. Parker
Chief Robert H. Salamon
Assistant Chief Ann Quon
Chief Pamela G. Kruzic
Assistant Chief Christian E. Perez

Regional Representative Keon-Woo Lee

Director Jungsoo Lee

Director Karti Sandilya

2 To report on 9 April 2001.
3 To report on 9 April 2001.274 ANNUAL REPORT 2000

Appendix 8

FORMER ADB PRESIDENTS AND VICE-PRESIDENTS
(as of 31 December 2000)

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

PRESIDENTS
Takeshi Watanabe 24 November 1966-24 November 1972
Shiro Inoue 25 November 1972-23 November 1976
Taroichi Yoshida 24 November 1976-23 November 1981
Masao Fujioka 24 November 1981-23 November 1989
Kimimasa Tarumizu 24 November 1989-23 November 1993
Mitsuo Sato 24 November 1993-15 January 1999
VICE-PRESIDENTS
C.S. Krishna Moorthi 19 December 1966-31 March 1978
A.T. Bambawale 1 April 1978-28 October 1985
M. Narasimham 1 November 1985-31 July 1988
S. Stanley Katz 1 April 1978-28 September 1990
In Yong Chung 1 August 1988-31 July 1993
William R. Thomson 1 October 1990-30 June 1994
Gunther G. Schulz 1 April 1983-30 June 1995
Bong-Suh Lee 1 August 1993-9 October 1998
Pierre Uhel 1 July 1995-4 December 1998

 

Peter H. Sullivan 6 July 1994-20 September 2000Appendixes 275

Appendix 9

SUMMARY OF BUDGET FOR 2001
Internal Administrative Expenses

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

($ thousand)
2000
After
Transfers* Actual
I. BOARD OF GOVERNORS? 630 630 384 808
Il. BOARD OF DIRECTORS 8,344 8,344 7,884 8,781
Ill. OPERATIONAL EXPENSES 167,864 167,864 162,189 176,967
Salaries 87,837 85,739 83,631 93,284
Benefits 44,930 44,930 42,756 46,229
Staff Development 2,300 2,300 1,916 2,300
Relocation 3,190 3,190 3,151 3,224
Consultants 13,435 15,533 15,533 14,400
Business Travel 15,862 15,862 14,932 17,200
Representation 310 310 270 330
IV. ADMINISTRATIVE EXPENSES 36,393 36,393 34,447 38,102
Communications 5,392 5,097 4,294 6,195
Office Occupancy 8,149 8,149 7,961 8,312
Library 823 823 802 914
Office Supplies 1,774 1,774 1,537 1,845
Office Equipment 3,274 4,913 4,913 2,836
Contractual Services 5,715 5,715 5,046 6,393
Insurance 499 499 471 57
Depreciation 10,585 9,140 9,140 10,792
Miscellaneous 182 283 283 258
V. TOTAL BEFORE GENERAL CONTINGENCY 213,231 213,231 204,904 224,658
VI. GENERAL CONTINGENCY 2,132 2132, = 2,247
TOTAL 215,363 215,363 204,904° 226,905

a Transfers were made between budget items within each budget category without exceeding the original amount of each category.

b_ Annual Meeting expenses.

c Excludes the following items reconciling with financial statements in compliance with generally accepted accounting principles: (i) provisions for
future liabilities with respect to severance pay ($1,031,000), accumulated compensated absences (-$234,000), and accrued resettlement/repatriation allowances ($187,000); (ii) adjustments of actuarially determined assessment of benefit obligations with respect to pension costs (-$8, 186,000)
and postretirement medical benefits ($7,794,000); and (iii) bank charges pertaining directly to the Asian Development Fund (ADF), Japan Special
Fund (JSF), and Japan Scholarship Program (JSP) ($20,000). Total administrative expenses, as shown in the financial statements, amounted to
$205,516,000. This amount, after deducting $497,000 and $79,000 directly charged to the Trust Fund for East Timor and JSP, respectively, has been
distributed as follows: ordinary capital resources (OCR) - $92,559,000 (Ref. OCR-2) net of $8,531,000 as front-end fee offset against loan origination
costs and recognized as a reduction in administrative expenses, ADF - $102,308,000 (Ref. ADF-2), and JSF - $1,542,000 (Ref. JSF-2).