AFRICAN DEVELOPMENT BANK GROUP

Annual Report
2016

bi) AFRICAN DEVELOPMENT BANK GROUPAfrican Development Bank Group Member Countries

Regional Member Countries

Algeria, Angola, Benin, Botswana, Burkina Faso, Burundi, Cabo Verde, Cameroon, Central African Republic,
Chad, Comoros, Congo, Congo Democratic Republic of, Cdte d'Ivoire, Djibouti, Egypt, Equatorial Guinea, Eritrea,
Ethiopia, Gabon, Gambia, Ghana, Guinea, Guinea Bissau, Kenya, Lesotho, Liberia, Libya, Madagascar, Malawi,
Mali, Mauritania, Mauritius, Morocco, Mozambique, Namibia, Niger, Nigeria, Rwanda, SAo Tomé & Principe,
Senegal, Seychelles, Sierra Leone, Somalia, South Africa, South Sudan, Sudan, Swaziland, Tanzania, Togo, Tunisia,
Uganda, Zambia, Zimbabwe.

Non-regional Member Countries

Argentina, Austria, Belgium, Brazil, Canada, China, Denmark, Finland, France, Germany, India, Italy, Japan, Korea,
Kuwait, Luxembourg, Netherlands, Norway, Portugal, Saudi Arabia, Spain, Sweden, Switzerland, Turkey, United
Arab Emirates (member of the ADF only), United Kingdom, United States of America.

Classification of Regional Member Countries by Resources Entity

@ 8.

Morocco
P= a 8.
Mom
Senegal @ Mol 9 rf @ oa © Eritrea
om Oe 2... © ry

Guinea-Bissau

siora Leontalll © @ Benin @ Nigeria © © © Somalia

(©), c*te @oO~ © saith Ethiopia

Liberia @voire Cameroon Central Arican Sudan
Ghana Republic
Equatorial Guinea @® ® ©
Cae Uganda Kenya
e207 © Rwanda
Congo @® DR Congo © Burundi
Sao Tomé & Principe © @ ®
Tanzania Seychelles
oo] © Malawi Comoros
Angola © Mozambique
(@ 208 Zambia
Countries Eligible for ADB ©
Resources Only

ADF @ @ Zimbabwe © @

@ Countries Eligible for ADF 3 Botswana Madagascar
Resources Only* Namibia
BLEND ® Swaziland
Countries Eligible for a Blend of ©
ADB and ADF Resources
@® Lesotho
South Africa

Note: * Some ADF-only countries may be eligible to access the ADB
sovereign entity on a case-by-case basis in line with the policy on
“Diversifying the Bank’s Products” approved in 2014 to provide ADF-only
eligible countries access to the ADB sovereign entity.

Source: AfDB.

MauritiusTable of contents

Message
from
ita sti 4is

Financial Snapshot
of 2016

  

5.

Financial Highlights and
Abridged Financial

Statements

 

The Annual Report 2016 was prepared by the Macroeconomic Policy, Forecasting and Research Department of the Vice Presidency for Economic
Governance and Knowledge Management Complex. The Boards’ Committee on External Communications and Preparation of the Annual Meetings
(ECAM) provided overall guidance.

Report Team: O. A. Salami (Task Team Leader); V. Ancharaz, A. Portella, and R. Boadi.
Translation and Editing: B. Lo and H. G. Ndi (French Translation), and E.W. Goro (English Editor).
Finance Team: O. J. Onyango, J. Chaphxanya and R. dribi.

Design and Photographs: G. Gnabro, I. Ibrahim, J. Kabasele, D.F. Nando and L. Yattien-Amiguet.Message from the President

After | took office in September 2015, the
first full year of my presidency—2016—
was a year of major changes for the
world, for Africa, and for the African
Development Bank. Global growth
in 2016 was lackluster. Economic
shocks included weak investment, low
commodity prices, and slow-moving
trends in demographics and productivity growth. Financial
conditions tightened in some regions, and some currencies
have already experienced very large depreciations. And noneconomic factors such as Brexit, geopolitical uncertainties, and
the rising tide of populism contributed to a decline in global trade.

Against this background, Africa’s growth declined to 2.2 percent
in 2016, the lowest in over a decade. The story was not uniform,
however. The commodity-exporting countries faced some difficult
challenges and had to rely on higher levels of external financing.
But most non-resource-intensive economies remained resilient,
with some posting impressive growth.

The mixed economic performance among African countries
underscores the urgency for structural economic transformation
on the continent—to build resilience and drive sustainable,
inclusive growth. Fulfilling its role and mandate, the Bank stepped
up its support to Regional Member Countries (RMCs) through
higher levels of lending and more policy-relevant knowledge.

The Bank’s five strategic priorities—the High 5s—and the
strategies for implementing four of them were approved and are
being executed. Bank operations in 2016 supported economic
recovery and reform, through budget support and lending to
RMC banks, while continuing to implement major programs
and investments across all sectors. Bank Group approvals in
2016 peaked at USD 10.80 billion, an increase of 27 percent
on the previous year. Disbursements in 2016 reached USD 6.3
billion, the highest in the Bank’s history. Yet there is room for
further improvement, in both disbursement rates and approvals,
as the Bank strives to meet its targets.

Bank operations are estimated to have created about 630,000
jobs last year alone, many of them for entrepreneurial youths
and “agripreneurs” and a fair share for women. Our operations
have interconnected African cities, provided electricity, water
and sanitation to millions of people, connected rural farmers to
markets and warehouses, and sharply reduced trade costs and
travel times. More important, our interventions have saved lives
and sustained livelihoods in crisis situations. There is little doubt
that the Bank made a difference to the quality of life for the people
of Africa. In the years ahead, we will accelerate these efforts.

The Bank's flagship knowledge products have become increasingly

important in shaping regional and global discourse on Africa’s
emerging development imperatives. Notably, the African Economic
Outlook on Sustainable Cities and Structural Transformation
was a valuable reference point for the design of a Pan-African
urbanization agenda during the Habitat Il Conference, providing
new possibilities for urbanization policies to help Africa benefit from
an “urbanization dividend.” Relatedly, the high-level roundtable
discussions at the Korea-Africa Economic Cooperation Ministerial
Conference drew solely from the results of studies conducted
under the project on Structural Transformation of Agriculture
and Rural Spaces (STAARS).

We continued implementing the new business delivery model
to make operations leaner, more efficient and more effective.
We are revamping processes and systems, and are taking
the Bank closer to our clients. We have reconfigured the
organizational structure, created five regional hubs, and filled
all the leadership positions.

Thanks to our proactive risk management strategy and bold but

prudent financial decisions, the Bank Group consolidated its
top ratings from international rating agencies —Standard and
Poor's, Fitch, Moody’s, and Japan Credit Rating Agency —with
a stable outlook. This confirms the Bank’s strong financial
position, buttressed by unwavering membership support. Armed
with a solid financial performance in 2016 and a new delivery
and business plan that will boost both the Bank’s income and
operations, we stand ready to continue bettering the lives of
the people of Africa.

| wish to express my sincere appreciation to our Boards of
Directors, Management, and staff for their support throughout
2016, and | count on their continued support in achieving the
African transformation that we have pledged to deliver. The
Bank is now fit for purpose, and we are set to deliver on our
transformation agenda—to transform African economies and
better the lives of the African people.

umi Ayodeji Adesina
President of the
African Development Bank Group
Chairperson of the Boards of DirectorsAnnual Report 2016

The President and the Executive Directors

Ms. K. ISAKSSON;

Mr. D. FANIZZA;

Mr. H.S. TSE;

President A. A. ADESINA;
Mr. T. AL-TUSHANI;

Mr. M. ZAGHLOUL; and
Mr. D. LEBASTARD.

Mr. R. OBAM NLONG;
Mr. A. MELLOUKI;

Ms. M. MABIALA;

Ms. M.E.P. LEKHETHE;
Ms. S. MELLALI;

Mr. R. MEYER; and

Mr. B. OKOGU.

Third Row, from left to right:
Mr. P. ZIMPITA;

Mr. N.C. WEGGORO;

Mr. H. OZAWA;

Mr. K.B. OKU-AFARI;

Mr. M. TURNER (US Chair);
Mr. H.M. GAOMAB; and

 

 

 

 

Letter of Transmittal

In accordance with Article 32 of the Agreement
establishing the African Development Bank and Articles
8, 11, and 12 of the General Regulations adopted
thereunder, and pursuant to Article 26 of the Agreement
establishing the African Development Fund and Articles
8, 11, and 12 of the General Regulations adopted
thereunder, the Boards of Directors of the Bank and
of the Fund hereby submit to the Boards of Governors
the Annual Report and Financial Report of the African
Development Bank and the African Development Fund
for the financial year ended 31 December 2016.

The Annual Report includes a review of developments
in the operational activities of the Bank Group during
2016. The Financial Report contains the full set of
audited financial statements of the Bank and the special
purpose financial statements of the Fund, together with
the approved administrative budget for 2017 and the
review of financial management and financial results.
These reports are available electronically on the Bank
Group’s web page at www.afdb.org/annualreport.

Mr. A. KONE.

Quick Facts

The African Development Bank Group, Africa’s premier
multilateral development finance institution, remains
financially strong, as confirmed by its AAA/Aaa and AA+/
Aa! ratings.

 

In 2016, the Bank Group focused on five development
priorities—the “High 5s”—Light Up and Power Africa, Feed
Africa, Industrialize Africa, Integrate Africa, and Improve the
Quality of Life for the People of Africa within the framework
of its Ten-Year Strategy (2013-2022) aimed at promoting
inclusive and green growth.

 

Total approvals in 2016 peaked at UA 8.04 billion, 27 percent
higher than in 2015. Over half of the lending volume went
to the Improve the Quality of Life priority. Other allocations
were as follows: Light Up and Power Africa 19%, Feed Africa
11%, Industrialize Africa 12%, and Integrate Africa 6%.

 

Disbursements increased by 55 percent from 2015 to UA
4.68 billion in 2016, exceeding their target for the year.

Front Row, from left to right:

Second Row, from left to right:

iilBOL JO ajdoad ay} 10}

gOr96vN GLZ7'S : ei ts

io m-v4lisP a) e10 | @)

eouy pest @
706 3 ote BOL Jamo pue dp y6q CO

Ty Tk Y1 <j yd

A L aps SSAYASSY TWLOL q 9 6°99 aes
/ .
hide eeoerf ze eigeireo : qd 6 G9
S3ILILNSA a 6S 09

 

(vn ul)
(vn u) (Gav) 9102 sequisosq }¢ jo se
910% suoHeiado panoiddy jeyide>

 

SeLJUNOS Jequuet [euo|Ge1-UON
suonen $914JUNOD UBDLW-UON sa14jUNO0d UROL

08= 7

eae siapjoyaieus gay
Ayeaod sonpei pue

YIMOIH DILUQUDDS

Me |-ieliatsiarcmeoelUU los eRe) E 9LOZ JO JoUSdeuUs jelUeULy
Wer

SelJUNOD Jequel feucibeysiseydwy H UolyeUOJsUeL |
jeloeds yeuonesadO yoddns 0}
2109 sanioeigo om,

jo sealy
suoljeuidsy

 

 

%20e-E10e ABaye1S
jee, ual aqiv 90 epusby nv

 

SIVOO

ANaWdOT3A30
STEVNIVLSNS

    

  

®
Ll
x

Te
eee)

|

 

Bie

EET)
eto)

s]eod juswdojenop
ajqeuleysng NN

 

swajsfs yyeey Bulueyy6ue.$
uolyey!Ues »g J8}eM 0} ssed9e Hulnosduu| eBoy Ssoloe Bulljene} %0r dn seljipowwos

   

 

AwiUCd9 UBOIAtY BU} 40} SUBOLIY 10} S]USWAI! peuey}6ue.js pue pedojerep Sddd 0S pessedoid JO} anjeA yeysewW Jo e1eYS POLY
supeB ewoou! ul UOIIIIG OF GSN ys09 uoeyodsue,} Ul penes Ut peyoddns seuoz o1wouose jeloeds ge 0 dS/N - eouejeq ape} jou s,eoly

payeeio sqof se OPE} |E}O} JO %ZG %0E1 Aq paseaioU! dad uonLnujew pue JeBuny o18Z
Boy Jo ajdoad ayy 4105 Bunueseidas epen ueoiyy-e21u 0} UONgLJUCO jeUISNpUl Ayenod ewa3x9 Jo No pay!) WOE

 

ay] Jo Ayjyenb ey} evosduyy eoLyy 07e160}uU] ROLY SZIeLysnpul

 

SUO}}99@UU0D PLIB-}J0 U Gut
SUOO@UUCD pILB-UO UOIIIILW OS L+
peyereueb Ayoujo9|9 MD 291+

eolyy 4emod 9 dn 1y6I7

Gz0e $}@61e} sg YyBIH

  

910%

  

UOIJEUIOJSULL} S,LI1IJY 0} PEOl 24} UDAfrica has come a long way. Before the turn of the century,
poverty was rampant, economies were faltering, infrastructure
was in disrepair, and political and economic governance was
weak. Africa as a continent was fragile. Things changed as
Africa grew rapidly over the next two decades. Extreme poverty
in Africa declined from 56 percent of the population in 1990
to 41.5 percent in 2015. Economic policies, political stability,
and the business environment all improved, making the region
a target for foreign direct investment, which reached USD 56.5
billion in 2016. Africa is on the rise.

Despite these achievements, poverty remains a challenge in
Africa, with an estimated 400 million poor, in 2015, up from
350 million in 1990, largely because of rapid population growth.
Income inequality remains high, youth unemployment is rising,
and gender equality remains elusive. The benefits of growth in
Africa have not reached the masses.

More important, Africa continues to be at the mercy of boombust cycles dictated by trends in the global economy. Global
growth slowed to 3.1 percent in 2016 (from 3.2 percent the
previous year). The loss of momentum in the economic recovery
of the United States (where growth dipped to 1.6 percent in
2016 against 2.6 percent in 2015), the uncertainty following
Brexit and the slowdown in China, where growth is converging
to a “new normal” after declining continuously from its 2010
level, are the key factors weighing on Africa’s growth. The weak
global environment has hit African economies mainly through
low commodity prices and depressed export demand for African
goods. Economic growth in Africa plunged to 2.2 percent in
2016, the lowest in over a decade.

   

The biggest commodity-exporting countries saw a sharp drop
in growth, but several oil-importing countries continued to
enjoy reasonably rapid growth. Nigeria’s economy, the largest
in Africa, contracted in real terms by 1.5 percent. South Africa
and Angola narrowly escaped recession. South Sudan suffered
a deep economic contraction (of 13.1 percent), while growth
in other oil-exporting countries remained negative (Chad and
Equatorial Guinea). Only Egypt (4.3 percent) and Algeria (3.5
percent) were able to maintain reasonably good economic
performance in the face of declining oil prices. In contrast,
non-resource-intensive economies generally fared well, led by
Céte d'Ivoire (8.4 percent) and Senegal (6.7 percent) in Western
Africa, and by Tanzania (7.2 percent) and Kenya (6.0 percent)
in Eastern Africa. Economic growth in Africa is expected to
rebound to 3.4 percent in 2017 —but still below the average
for the past 10 years.The diversity of economic performances in the face of global
headwinds underpins Africa’s heterogeneity as a region,
as illustrated by the resilience of non-commodity-intensive
economies. There is also evidence—from Africa’s response to
he financial crisis—that the most regionally integrated countries
are able to better weather external economic shocks. Together,
his points to the need for African countries to diversify their
economies in terms of both the basket of goods and services
hat they produce and the markets. Urgent and bold economic
ransformation is more than ever a priority for the continent.
The opportunities to pursue it abound.

Africa’s enormous development potential—in almost all sectors—
has yet to be tapped. In agriculture, African countries remain
‘ood insecure, spending billions of dollars on food imports
every year to feed their people. Yet Africa has 65 percent of
he world’s untilled arable land to meet the food needs of the
planet’s 9 billion people by 2050. In energy, Africa has the lowest
electrification rate across world regions, with more than 645
million people lacking access to electricity. Yet the continent’s
potential in renewable energy is huge, and largely unexploited.

 

 

Moreover, many African countries are stuck at the low end of
the agricultural value chain, exporting raw commodities that
are subject to price and climatic fluctuations. Industrialization
efforts have faltered, mainly because of poor policies and a lack
of support services. Even so, agriculture can form the basis
for industrialization in Africa, and African countries can position
themselves to integrate into global value chains and move up
along them through agro-processing. Harnessing the private
sector—by facilitating access to finance for innovative enterprises,
incentivizing entrepreneurship, and providing the right business
environment—will be critical to maintaining industrial impetus.

 

Lastly, Africa’s intraregional trade is among the lowest in the
world, held down by fragmented markets owing to poor policies,
little economic diversification, and weak infrastructure. Regional
integration remains an imperative for a continent where 16
countries, with one-third of Africa’s people, are landlocked, and
19 countries have populations of less than 5 million.

All these challenges have persisted for too long. Therefore,
business as usual will not be enough to drive sustainable growth
and alleviate poverty in Africa. Anew development approach is
in order. This is needed because the Bank, as Africa’s leading
financial institution, continues to face challenges in meeting
the development agenda of its Regional Member Countries
(RMCs)—despite its track record of delivering development
impacts across the continent for over half a century. While the
Bank Group remains financially strong, as confirmed by its AAA/
Aaa and AA+/Aai ratings, there is an urgent need to augment
its revenues, which have declined significantly in recent years.
Moreover, to improve the development impact of its operations,
the Bank must get closer to its clients and reform its processes
to speed up disbursement and project implementation, all while

Annual Report 2016

cutting costs and enhancing productivity. In short, the Bank
must transform itself to deliver more effectively. Piecemeal,
incremental reforms have not worked.

In 2016, the Bank Group embraced a bold transformation
agenda—a promise to transform Africa by transforming itself,
by becoming a more efficient and effective institution, by rallying
its people and partners behind this cause, and by leveraging
and scaling up development finance to catalyze development.

Evolving with the New Business

Development Landscape

At the center of the Bank's transformation agenda are the High 5s—
Light Up and Power Africa, Feed Africa, Industrialize Africa,
Integrate Africa, and Improve the Quality of Life for the People
of Africa—that the Bank Group adopted in late 2015. In 2016,
the Bank Group sharpened its focus on the High 5s as it rolled
out the strategies needed to implement them. It adopted in April
2016, anew Development and Business Delivery Model (DBDM)
to realign its organizational structure with the strategic objectives
of the Ten-Year Strategy 2013-2022 for achieving inclusive and
green growth and the High 5s priorities to accelerate delivery and
development impacts. The new structure also aims to bring the
Bank closer to its clients and improve organizational effectiveness
to meet the growing needs of RMCs and their private sector.

During the year, the Bank Group initiated several reforms as part
of a transformative agenda to restructure the organization to build
regional capabilities, change the Bank’s culture, and streamline
its processes. It approved The Update of the Decentralization
Action Plan with a view to adjusting the ongoing decentralization
process with the new DBDM. The Update seeks to strengthen
the presence of the Bank at the regional level; right-size offices
at country and regional levels; reconfigure the role, functions,
and relations of the sector departments at Headquarters; and
establish the Regional Development, Integration, and Business
Delivery hubs. The strategies to operationalize four of the five
priorities were swiftly developed and approved by July 2016, along
with initiatives to implement these strategies (Table 1). For the
Integrate Africa priority, the Bank Group has, for now, retained the
existing Regional Integration Policy and Strategy 2014-2023 but
is working on a new strategy that will reflect emerging priorities.

The new strategies entail major financial commitments and
active engagement by the Bank over the next ten years. Their
implementation will require investments of about USD 100 billion,
and the Bank will leverage several times this amount through
strategic partnerships, including those with the private sector.

In 2016 the Bank Group’s operations laid the foundation to
unleash an agricultural transformation in Africa, create jobs for
thousands of youth, empower young entrepreneurs including
many women, and bring electricity to several million Africans—
improving their quality of life.1. Repositioning the Bank Group

New Strategies to Drive the High 5s

 

High 5s
Priority Areas Strategy
Light U New Deal on
3 P Energy for Africa
and Power = 2016-2025
Africa
Feed Strategy for
Agricultural
Africa Transformation
in Africa
2016-2025
Industrialize — 'ndustrialization
x Strategy for Africa
Africa 2016-2025
Improve Jobs for Youth
= in Africa
the Quality 2016-2025
of Life for
the People
of Africa

Objectives

Achieve universal energy access for Africa
by 2025

Contribute to eliminating extreme poverty and end hunger
and malnutrition in
Africa; make Africa
a net food exporter,
and move African
countries up in export-oriented global
value chains

Increase capacity of
African firms to compete with imported
products in local
markets; boost regional trade; support
development and expansion of small and
medium enterprises
(SMEs)and industry
clusters

Generate 25 million
jobs and affect 50
million young people over the next 10
years by creating
better opportunities
for entrepreneurship
and self-employment

Selected
Key Actions

Improve the policy environment to
attract private investment; support
reforms in the utility sector; and
accelerate major regional projects
and country-specific energy
transformation plans

Promote and strengthen a range
of priority agricultural value chains
based on agro-ecological zone
capabilities

Pursue six flagship programs
aimed at fostering industrial
policies, catalyzing funding in
infrastructure and promoting
private sector development

Mainstream job creation into
Bank-financed projects; support
policies and institutions in RMCs
for inclusive jobs; implement
flagship programs in agriculture,
information and communications
technology, and industry aimed
at strengthening skills and
stimulating entrepreneurship

Funding
Requirements

Invest USD 34 billion and leverage
about four times that amount
between 2016 and 2025

Invest USD 24 billion and catalyze
investments of USD 315-400
billion over the 10-year horizon

Invest USD 35 billion over the next
10 years and mobilize cumulative
investment of USD 56 billion

Mobilize USD 4.7 billion over the
next 10 years to support youth
entrepreneurship in Africa

Selected
Initiatives

Africa Renewable Energy Initiative
(AREl)

Sustainable Energy for All (SE4All)

Sustainable Energy Fund for Africa
(SEFA)

Transformative Partnership on
Energy for Africa

Technologies for African Agricultural Transformation

ENABLE Youth
Agro-poles, and agro-industrial
processing zones and corridors

Leadership for African Agriculture

Affirmative Financing Action for
Women in Africa (AFAWA)

Risk-Sharing Finance Mechanisms

Boost Africa Initiative

African Financial Markets Initiative

African Investment Forum

Boost Africa Investment Fund

ENABLE Youth Program

Affirmative Financing Action for
Women in Africa (AFAWA)

Note: The current strategy to drive the Integrate Africa priority—the Bank Group's Regional Integration Policy and Strategy 2014-2023—is not included in the table because it

is not a new strategy.On the Road to Africa’s Transformation

The transformation process—launched by the Bank to align
its organizational structure and business delivery model with
its Ten-Year Strategy and its High 5s priorities—rests on five
pillars (Figure 1).

Following approval by the Boards of Directors of the new DBDM
in April 2016, a Transformation Management Team (TMT) was
set up to lead the internal transformation. The Team focused
on seven critical change-management areas (Figure 2) and
made key recommendations for implementing the Bank’s
transformation agenda. In particular, the Bank’s complexes
were reconfigured to better align them with the High 5s priorities
(Appendix 6). The new Power, Energy, Climate, and Green
Growth Complex will lead the Light Up and Power Africa priority.
The Agriculture, Human, and Social Development Complex
will lead the Feed Africa and Improve the Quality of Life for the
People of Africa priorities. The Private Sector and Infrastructure
Complex will lead the implementation of the Industrialize Africa
priority. The Regional Development, Integration, and Business
Delivery Complex (decentralized across

Annual Report 2016

was reduced by 96 days. Shorter delays were also registered
in procuring goods and works (by 9 days) and services (by 6
days). These efficiency gains have occurred at an early stage of
implementation of the reforms, and within a relatively short period
of time, showing that substantial room for improvement exists
as the Bank continues to roll out the reform agenda (Figure 3).

The Bank Group continued to make progress toward its
decentralization targets. In 2016, as in the preceding year, 65
percent of projects were managed from the field—against a target
of 60 percent. The number of operations staff at professional
level remained below the target of 50 percent, with 42.1 percent
based in field offices, up from 40.6 percent in 2015. These
statistics are expected to improve as the Bank rolls out the
updated plan in tandem with its DBDM.

Beyond lending, the Bank Group aspires to strengthen its
position as a premier knowledge-driven institution on the
continent, providing demand-driven, evidence-based policy
and advisory services to RMCs and the private sector. This
vision is reflected in the expanded mandate of the Economic

five hubs) will drive Integrate Africa. The
Se OS a ie ek edge Five by Five—Five Foundations to Drive the High 5s
Management Complex will provide

leadership for macroeconomic policy,
economic governance, and knowledge
management. By the end of the year, all
Vice Presidents (to lead the complexes),
all five Director-Generals (to lead the
Regional Hubs), and the Director for the
Nigeria Country Office had been appointed.

In addition to the TMT, a Delivery,
Accountability and Process Efficiency
Committee (DAPEC) was set up to
review the Bank’s business processes,
procedures, and systems and to propose

Five foundations
to deliver five goals

Move closer to our clients Telia yo}
to enhance delivery

& power Africa

Reconfigure HQ to
Ese) eLola am Uae cots [ole Co} Feed Africa

deliver better outcomes

changes to make the Bank more nimble
and efficient. This Committee will

complete mapping the Bank’s current
processes in the first quarter of 2017,
and will then focus on designing more
efficient “to be” processes. Throughout
the year, management also continued
to engage and communicate with staff
on the reform priorities as part of its
change-management efforts.

Implementing a process reform agenda,
alongside Presidential directives among
other factors, has led to a sharp increase
in total disbursements of the Bank Group
(up 55 percent from 2015) as the time
from approval to first disbursement

Strengthen the
performance culture to
attract and maintain talent

Seer TM aL)
processes to promote
efficiency and
effectiveness

Improve financial
performance and increase
development impact

Industrialize
Africa

Tale-vele-hicy
Africa

Improve the quality
of life for the
people of Africa1. Repositioning the Bank Group

Transformation Management Team
Focal Areas 2016

Change
Management

TatieeU Alignment &

Rollout Performance

TMT
tole) WN tL 3

2016

Systems
& Technical
Change

Efficiency

Engagement Organizational
C7 SST lea Vc)
Oroyaanieancinle & Change

 

Steady Progress but Remaining Challenges in

Process Efficiency (days)

 

600 @ 2015 @ 2016

 

544

500

 

400

81

 

300 g

 

25
244

222
216

200

 

100

 

 

Procurement
of Services

Procurement
of Goods

Approval of
Effectiveness

Approval to First
Disbursement

Note: Dotted lines represent targets (in days).

Governance and Knowledge Management Complex, which
places greater emphasis on the Complex’s role as a leader in
macroeconomic policy management, economic governance,
and knowledge management.

The Complex’s knowledge activities will inform and support
operations and drive the Bank Group's policy advocacy work
while its capacity-building activities will continue to help improve
policymaking in RMCs. These activities are aimed at positioning
the Bank at the heart of macroeconomic surveillance in Africa and
as a premier institution of choice for advisory services. The Bank
Group’s work in this area includes mainstreaming measurement,
tracking, and impact evaluation in Bank Group operations;
supporting improvements in public financial management and
quality of statistics; assisting African countries in managing their
natural resources; supporting RMC capacity for development
effectiveness and sustainability; and generating knowledge that
is transferrable, replicable, and scalable.

In sum, the implementation of the reform agenda has moved
ahead and progress has been significant. But as is common for
reforms of this scale, the Bank faced some challenges. While
most of the challenges have been addressed by Management
to ensure that the transformation effort remains on track, some
remain for the year ahead.

First, to handle the depth of the transformation while maintaining
services to the Bank’s clients, management has applied a
flexible approach that allows Senior Management to continue
running day-to-day activities while implementing the reforms.
This approach offered the best opportunity for achieving
meaningful, inclusive, and successful transformative change.
Nonetheless, the challenges of continuing normal operations
while undergoing deep-rooted transformation became evident
early in the process. This was mainly due to the ongoing and
yet unfinished replenishment of human resources following the
Bank’s return to HQ. Management responded by reprioritizing
the main areas of reform and supporting the Transformation
Management Team with internal and external resources.

Secondly, uncertainty among staff—concerned about possible
changes to their careers, while still being expected to deliver on
their regular work—introduced another layer of challenges for
implementing the Development and Business Delivery Model.
Management handled these challenges in several ways. It
introduced a newsletter to communicate major areas of change,
launched the “Ask Frannie” forum, where staff could ask questions
about the reforms, held town hall meetings at critical times to
address staff concerns, and made more information available
to bridge the communications gap.

In 2017, Management will deal with remaining challenges. It will
ensure that staff mapping is completed and that the Bank is
staffed with the right talent to drive the transformation agenda
going forward.ne
Bank Group
Operations

The implementation of the High 5s builds on the Bank Group’s
Ten-Year Strategy and offers a compelling opportunity to transform
the lives of the African people. The year 2016 was the first full
year working to deliver on these priorities.

Accordingly, the Bank Group ended 2016 with a record UA 8.04
billion (USD 10.8 billion) in approvals. Actual disbursements
amounted to UA 4.68 billion (USD 6.3 billion), 55 percent
higher than the year before. Through a High 5s lens, approved
Bank Group operations in 2016 are expected to create about
630,000 jobs, many for youths and a fair share for women.
These approvals aim to bring electricity to previously dark areas,
unlock growth potential for small businesses, nourish thousands
of children (curbing the incidence of stunted growth), nurture
young entrepreneurs, and strengthen connectivity between
African regions and cities.

These impacts will be delivered through enhanced dialogue
with RMCs as the Bank gets progressively closer to its clients,
in line with its new business model.

Bank Group Operations by High 5s

There is no perfect mapping between the High §s priorities and
the operational sectors for which approvals data is recorded.
Most sector operations have an impact on more than one High 5s
priority area. However, the following convention is adopted in
this Report in mapping sectors to the High 5s:

°

ooo°o

°

Port of Walvis Bay, New Container Terminal
ay on Reclaimed LandProject, Namibia.

Finance is treated as a cross-cutting sector and is mapped
to each of the High 5s, depending on the specific operation
and its intended impact. For example, housing finance, an
emerging area of Bank intervention, is mapped to Improve
the Quality of Life; lines of credit to financial institutions are
mapped to Industrialize Africa when such funds are meant
for on-lending to firms in the productive sectors, etc.
Energy supply is mapped to Light Up and Power Africa.
Agriculture and rural development is attributed to Feed Africa.
Industry, mining, and quarrying is mapped to Industrialize Africa.
Multinational components of Communication and Transport
are assigned to Integrate Africa.

Social services, Water Supply and Sanitation, domestic
components of Communication and Transport, Urban
development, Environment, and Multisector operations are
mapped to Improve the Quality of Life for the People of Africa.

Akinwumi Ayodeji Adesina2. Focusing Bank Group Operations on the High 5s

Total approvals
crossed the UA

8 billion mark—
27 percent higher
than in 2015

The Bank is crafting a mapping
methodology for monitoring progress
on the High 5s, to be finalized and
implemented in 2017.

Bank Group operations in 2016 saw
increases in approvals across all but one
of the High 5s. Disbursements increased
sharply, exceeding their target for the year.

The main highlights (Figure 4 and
Appendixes 1 and 2):

© Total approvals reached a historical
high of UA 8.04 billion, a 27 percent
increase over the previous year. The
largest share of approvals (UA 4.20 billion, or 52.3 percent)
went to the Improve the Quality of Life priority, an increase
of 14.5 percent over 2015.

© Total approvals for Light Up and Power Africa rose sharply
by 72.8 percent to UA 1.51 billion, representing 18.7 percent
of Bank Group approvals.

© Operations targeting the Feed Africa priority increased 66
percent to UA 868.3 million, taking its share past the 10
percent mark.

© Approvals for Industrialize Africa increased 43.5 percent to
UA 968.9 million, lifting its share of approvals to 12.1 percent.

© With 492.4 million in approvals, 17.7 percent lower than in
2015, the Integrate Africa priority had the smallest share of
total approvals (6.1 percent).

Bank Group loan and grant disbursements (excluding equity
participations, guarantees, and special funds) came to UA 4.68
billion in 2016, up 55 percent from 2015. Disbursements exceeded
their annual target, reversing the trend since 2012 (Figure 5).

Several factors explain the hike in disbursements in 2016.
There was a sharp increase in disbursements for policy-based
operations (accounting for 48 percent of total disbursements)
to some countries in the aftermath of the commodities slump.
Conversely, disbursements for private sector operations achieved
only 67 percent of the target for the year, which nevertheless
was an improvement on the previous year’s level (by 15 percent).
This was due in part to delays in meeting conditions precedent

Bank Group Approvals by High 5s Priority

     

Cs

Industrialize
Africa

  

PONV Wa ety

UA 4.68 billion was
disbursed in 2016, well
above target

Bank Group Disbursements Exceeded Their Targets

in 2016 (UA million), 2012-2016

 

4,800 @ Actual @ Target

 

4,437

 

 

 

4,300
&
3,800 ° 2
S a
3,300 - 5
2,800

 

2012 2013 2014 2015 2016to disbursement. On the whole, the increased volumes of
disbursements highlight better portfolio management efforts
through closer monitoring with executing agencies following a
Presidential Directive, and enhanced disbursement effectiveness
arising from process reforms.

Notwithstanding the positive performance, disbursement delays
continue to impact the Bank’s portfolio. They arise from delays
in signing loan agreements, delays in ratification by Parliaments,
capacity weaknesses at the level of executing agencies, and
political transitions. The Bank Group is in the process of
implementing a rigorous approach to project readiness, design,
and procurement to ensure faster disbursement of approvals
while cancelling all non-performing operations. The rollout of the
Updated Decentralization Action Plan will also help accelerate
disbursement by reinforcing field presence.

Light Up and Power Africa

Africa has the lowest electrification rate of world regions. More
than 645 million people, the majority of them in rural areas,
have no access to electricity. More than 30 countries report
regular power outages that result in loss of working days (and

 
 
 

  

Geothermal development
for electricity supply,
Menengai, Kenya. “It’s
going to make our lives
easier. We will be able to
have electric cookers and
light in the house and the
kitchen. We will be able
to operate more
efficiently and the
children won't go to sleep
hungry or too late.”

      
     
   
    

 
   
   
 

  

Annual Report 2016

UA 1.51 billion was
invested to Light Up and
Power Africa in 2016

income, including worker earnings), and economic output.
More than 700 million people rely on biomass and fuelwood for
cooking, with indoor smoke causing thousands of deaths every
year, especially among women and children. Africa’s energy
poverty persists despite the continent's enormous potential in
renewable energy: 325 days of strong sunlight, 15 percent of
the world’s hydropower potential, and good potential in wind
and geothermal energy.

The Bank Group’s goal for the Light Up and Power Africa priority

is to achieve universal access to energy for Africa by 2025.
This will be realized by expanding grid power by 160 GW, by
connecting 130 million people to grid power and an additional 75
million people to off-grid systems, and by providing 150 million
households access to clean cooking energy. The
New Deal on Energy for Africa signals the Bank
Group’s commitment to address Africa’s energy
deficit —by increasing energy production, scaling
up energy access, and improving the affordability,
reliability, efficiency, and sustainability of energy
systems (Box 1). The Bank Group is investing
about USD 34 billion of its own resources in
energy sector operations in 2016-2025 and will
leverage about four times this amount through
partnerships, especially with the private sector.

Light Up and Power Africa
(2014-2016)

The Bank expanded rata
or seMclC MIC! (soll kenrg
capacity by 1,500 MW,

benefiting some 10 million people.

About 10 percent of total installed
power capacity comes from

renewable sources, reducing aah
emissions by 175,000 tons a year.2. Focusing Bank Group Operations on the High 5s

by the ric ican Union to host the ‘nitiative's moeneAdent cM ane
| and to act as a trustee.

 
 
 
 
 

Egypt’s supercritical thermal stream power plant at Ain Sokhuna
has two turbine generators, each with a capacity of 650 MW, to
interconnect with the national unified power system. The ADB
provided a loan of USD 450 million, more than 20 percent of the
project’s cost.

DEBTS
pee i BY SRS =e, es

   

BOX FIGURE 1

j The New Deal « on Ener for Africa

  

    

Increase

on-grid
aenerat cn capacity Bank Group approvals for the Light Up and Power Africa
by 160 GW priority in 2016 (UA 1.51 billion) were 72.8 percent higher than

in 2015, with the bulk of the financing coming from the ADB
(non-concessional) entity. In addition, external financing of UA
41.5 million was channeled by the Bank, mainly from the Climate

  
 

Extend clean Connect Investment Funds (UA 20.0 million), the Global Environment Facility
energy cooking to 130 million new (UA 8.2 million), and the European Union-Africa Infrastructure
about 150 million households to 
households the grid Trust Fund (UA 7.8 million).

Close to 35 projects were approved in the energy sector in 2016,
with the largest ones also having cross-sectoral components,
such as governance. An operation for strengthening the
75 mill power transmission and distribution network in Céte d'Ivoire,
million households
to off-grid power financed by an ADB public loan of UA 109.8 million in 2016,
points aims to provide electricity to 252 rural communities, catalyze
the development of mining and agro-processing, and ultimately
create more than 3,000 direct jobs.

Connect an additionalAnother project, Kenya’s Last Mile

Connectivity Program (at a total 5
cost of USD 900 million, financed in
part by ADF loans of UA 90 million
in 2014 and USD 134.64 million in
2016), exemplifies the international
cooperation to mobilize financing to
connect 614,200 new customers
to the grid.

Two important operations in the
renewable energy sector were
approved in 2016. The 38 MW
Segou Solar Independent Power
Producer (IPP) project, Mali’s first
utility-scale solar project, financed
by an ADB senior loan of USD
8.5 million along with a Climate
Investment Funds senior loan of
USD 25 million, will generate 53
GWh annually, about 10 percent
of the country’s current capacity. The 42 MW Achwa 2, IPP
project in Uganda will generate about 162 GWh of hydropower
annually. The Bank Group provided a senior loan of USD 20
million toward the investment cost of USD 110 million.

 

The year also marked the completion of two energy projects
approved in 2007 and 2009. A project to scale up electricity
production, transmission, and distribution on the island of
Santiago, Cabo Verde—financed to the tune of UA 4.76 million
through the ADF window— increased the installed capacity of
the Palmarejo power plant by 22 MW. It improved access to
electricity for households and businesses from 61 percent of
the population in 2006, to an estimated 95 percent in 2015,
reducing the country’s energy import bill. A similar project in
Lesotho, financed by an ADF mix of loans and grants totaling UA
10.85 million, helped extend connections to 6,230 consumers.

Feed Africa (2014-2016)

The Bank has directly served over

16 million farmers, and extended improved
farming technologies to nearly 2 million
rural farmers.

ft expanded Co[Xe at Ce) Prritet tic) land
alt improved access to water management

by 112,000 hectares.

 

      

To tackle joblessness among African youth, the Bank through its Enable Youth Program will
spur 250,000 agribusiness enterprises and 1.25 million jobs over the next 10 years.

Annual Report 2016

Feed Africa

Agriculture—the mainstay of the African economy—employs
more than 60 percent of the African workforce and accounts for
roughly a third of the continent’s Gross Domestic Product (GDP).
Yet Africa is the world’s least food-secure region, with agriculture
vulnerable to climate change-induced events such as drought,
water scarcity, and other extreme weather events. A fundamental
paradox: a continent that boasts more than 65 percent of the
world’s uncultivated arable land, to help meet the food needs of
the 9 billion people on the planet by 2050, is itself a net importer of
food, spending billions on what could be grown or made at home.

The Bank Group’s vision for 2025 is that Africa feeds itself;
ends extreme poverty, hunger, and malnutrition; becomes a
net exporter of agricultural commodities; and industrializes by
diversifying its agri-exports and moving to the top of global value
chains. The Feed Africa Strategy for Agricultural Transformation
in Africa 2016-2025 was approved in May 2016 to drive the
Feed Africa priority. It seeks to transform African agriculture into
a competitive and inclusive agribusiness sector that creates
wealth and improves lives while preserving the environment.

The strategy builds on the commitments in the Maputo (2003)
and Malabo (2014) Declarations, both in furtherance of the
Comprehensive African Agricultural Development Program agenda.
It will prioritize projects for underserved rural, female, and youth
populations, and promote climate-smart agricultural practices
among farmers. The strategy targets eight priority areas for
investment (such as rice, cassava, horticulture, wheat, and fish),
through seven mutually reinforcing enablers: increased productivity;
higher value addition; greater investment in infrastructure; expanded
agricultural finance; improved agribusiness environment; increased
inclusivity, sustainability, and nutrition; and enhanced partnerships.

102. Focusing Bank Group Operations on the High 5s

BOX 2

 

Beckie’s Online Vegetable Basket

Beckie Nakabugo traces the origins of the Online Vegetable Basket to the miseries sustained by Ugandan farmers at the
hands of unscrupulous middlemen, who extract huge profit at their expense. “In Uganda, you cannot sell any perishables
without going through a middleman. So it was stressful selling our products”, lamented Beckie. “So we sat down and asked
what can really change in our life in order to make agriculture interesting? We came up with the Online Vegetable Basket.”

The Basket is a platform that sends order forms to offices, collects orders, then prepares and delivers them—all on a
Friday—and “receives cash instantly and happily.” “It is so enjoyable,” says Beckie, “that it has reduced post-harvest losses.”
The small group of youth who pioneered the idea has now grown to a dynamic enterprise of 30 officers.

Beyond providing direct jobs to youth, the enterprise has given a boost to local farming. “We have created 100 farmer groups
and the farmers are enjoying agriculture,” says Beckie. “We have become a better middleman!”

Transforming Africa’s agriculture requires coordinated action among

key stakeholders and an enabling agribusiness environment
to catalyze investment in the infrastructure needed to build
commodity value chains and agro-ecological zones. Transforming
Africa’s agriculture as foreseen by Feed Africa will cost about USD
30 billion a year for the next 10 years and generate revenues
of about USD 85 billion a year if fully implemented. The Bank
will invest USD 2.4 billion annually over the 10 years of the
Feed Africa Strategy and will leverage the balance through
partnerships and from commercial banks.

The Bank will also use its convening power to mobilize technical
assistance from a range of stakeholders, and work closely with
RMCs, providing policy advice and building
capacity, also with local farmers and civil
society groups.

Several flagship programs were launched to
implement Feed Africa in 2016, including:

© Agro-poles and agro-processing zones;
10 countries had expressed interest as of
December 2016.

© ENABLE Youth—a joint program with the
International Institute of Tropical Agriculture
to create business opportunities and decent
employment along priority agricultural
value chains by training and empowering
agripreneurs, such as Beckie Nakabugo
(Box 2 and Figure 6). Six projects in the
program were approved, with total funding
of UA 443 million in 2016.

© Technologies for African agricultural
transformation.

© Leadership for Agriculture, supported by
a USD 1 million grant from the Rockefeller
Foundation.

© Risk-sharing finance mechanisms.

am

© Innovative financing instruments, such as diaspora bonds —an
alternative to borrowing in the international capital market
by appealing to the sense of patriotism of the diaspora in
their destination country. Three pilot countries have been
selected for scoping missions.

© Affirmative Financing Action for Women in Africa (AFAWA).
A UA 9.8 million project for the 50 million members of the
African Women Speak Networking Platform across the
continent has been set up.

© African Leaders for Nutrition, a high-level panel that champions
policies and interventions to address malnutrition through
agriculture. A USD 3 million grant has been received from
the Bill & Melinda Gates Foundation for this initiative.

Food security support project in Louga, Matam and Kaffrine regions, Senegal.
“This project helped us. They told us to grow rice and we did it, and that allowed
change. Before, life was hard. We went to the forest to look for wood and sell coal.
We are now able to enroll our children in school.” Yacine Sall, a woman farmer.Annual Report 2016

 

Agribusiness Can Empower and Employ Africa’s Youth

* Benin, Burkina Faso, Burundi, Cameroon, Cote d'Ivoire, DRC,
Ghana, Guines Bissau, Kenya, Liberia, Madagascar, Malawi, Mali,
Mauritania, Morocco, Mozambique, Nigeria, Rwanda, Senegal,
Sierra Leone, Sudan, Tanzania, Tunisia, Uganda and Zambia.

TARGET

 

Forty-five operations related to agriculture and rural development,
climate-proofing and adaptation, and two financial sector
operations (worth UA 122.9 million) were approved during the
year—with total financing of UA 868.3 million, a steep 66 percent
increase from 2015 and 10.8 percent of total approvals in 2016.
Bank interventions in this area will, among other things, support
farm income and forestry conservation in Uganda; catalyze
development of the blue economy in Cabo Verde; provide
irrigation in Morocco and Swaziland; and develop agricultural value
chains in Cameroon, Céte d’lvoire, and Gambia. They will also
support youth entrepreneurship in agriculture and agribusiness
in the Democratic Republic of the Congo, the ENABLE Youth
programs in Nigeria and Sudan, and several activities related
to climate change adaptation and emergency food relief.

Several of the operations in the Feed Africa priority area aim
at promoting food security, building climate change-resilience
and creating equitable jobs, and as such cut across the High
5s, most notably the Improve the Quality of Life priority. For
example, the ENABLE Youth in Sudan will train 2,000 agricultural
entrepreneurs, who could in turn employ five support workers,

Bank Group vision:
Double industrial GDP to
USD 1.72 trillion by 2025

men and women in

 

INTERVENTION
CAPACITY ENTERPRISE FINANCING
AND SKILL BUILDING AND BUSINESS. =
= DEVELOPMENT Crowd in private
12 month training — investment and
incubation of young Transformation into commercial landing
graduates as business creditworthy Deploy risk sharing

agripreneurs mechanisms

agribusiness

rte OCA CLe- Te
USD 0.5 billion
Placa]

thus creating 12,000 jobs for young men and women in the
project's first five years.

Industrialize Africa

The Bank Group sees industrialization in the broader context of
structural transformation and economic diversification—consistent
with the view that services can allow Africa to leapfrog to a
superior and sustainable development path by bypassing the
often-elusive manufacturing stage. Africa’s potential in services,
especially in sectors aided by modern technology—such as
ICT, finance, business, and trade—is yet to be fully harnessed.
This potential is amply demonstrated by the fact that Africa’s
current share of global service exports is a meager 2 percent
while services remain the largest contributor to GDP growth
in Africa in recent years. Evidence also points to services as
generating better jobs and higher value added in manufacturing
value chains—and to service-led growth as greener and more
inclusive.

Industry’s share of GDP —an indicator of the scale of industrial
activity —has hovered around 35 percent and tended to decline
in recent years. More specifically, manufacturing value added
remains under 15 percent of GDP in Africa, the lowest across
all regions. Poor policies, inadequate infrastructure, lack of
access to finance, and an unattractive business environment
impede the development of the private sector and the growth of
small and medium enterprises (SMEs). This limits the capacity
of African economies to diversify, to create jobs, especially for

122. Focusing Bank G

mi” Ss
Bw
jup Operations on the High 5s.
=

With support from the Bank’s private sector operations, the Egyptian Refining
Company is starting production at its 4.2 million-ton capacity refinery. The
total cost was more than USD 4 billion.

f

    
 

youths and women, to generate higher incomes through greater
value addition, and to drive inclusive growth.

The Bank Group’s approach to industrialization in Africa
underscores the need to promote industrial development
and diversification through supportive policy, institutions, and
infrastructure, through access to capital and markets, and through
capacity building and entrepreneurship. The vision is to double
industrial GDP to USD 1.72 trillion by 2025 by supporting the
development of the private sector and unlocking the potential
of SMEs. In 2016, the Bank Group adopted its Industrialization
Strategy 2016-2025 to guide its engagement to Industrialize
Africa, in line with the African Union’s Industrial Development
Agenda. The strategy champions six flagship programs:

Catalyze funding in infrastructure and industry projects.
Expand liquid and effective capital markets.

Promote and drive enterprise development.

Promote strategic partnerships.

Develop efficient industry clusters.

Foster successful industrial policies.

©o00o0 000

13

 

 

S

These flagships will create jobs and work toward Africa’s
economic transformation as the Bank Group facilitates cumulative
investment of USD 56 billion by 2025.

Approvals for the Industrialize Africa priority totaled UA 968.86
million in 2016, 12.1 percent higher than the previous year.
Almost all of this amount was for financial operations, including
loans and lines of credit to financial institutions, trade finance,
equity participation, and guarantees. These interventions have
not only helped liquidity-constrained banks to recapitalize and
stay solvent, they have also ensured that funds are lent on to
income-generating sectors, including SMEs. In this regard, major
lines of credit were provided to three bank groups—USD 150
million to United Bank for Africa and USD 300 million each to First
Bank of Nigeria and EcoBank. More important, the Bank Group’s
financial sector operations have helped build or consolidate the
financial industry in RMCs, thus contributing to industrialization
in a broader sense and to economic diversification.

Specifically in relation to industrialization, the Bank Group launched
its flagship Boost Africa Initiative in 2016 aimed at promoting
entrepreneurship and creating new and innovative SMEs (Box 3).
In manufacturing, the Bank made a private equity investment of
UA 14.3 million in the African Industrialization Fund, which targets
investment for developing industrial value chains and human
capital in line with the Bank Group's Industrialization Strategy.
Notably, the Bank launched the Fashionomics initiative in 2015
to support micro, small, and medium enterprises in the fashion
industry —based around textiles, apparel, and accessories —by
helping them access finance, markets, and technology. In 2016,
Fashionomics set up an online platform to connect key actors
of the industry with banks and potential investors (including
alternative finance sources such as crowdfunding), and to
enhance capacity development and market intelligence.

Integrate Africa

Africa’s unique geographic characteristics—small markets,
scattered and far from major markets in Europe and the United
States, and the number of landlocked countries—make regional
integration an imperative. At less than 15 percent of Africa’s totalBOX 3
Boost Africa Initiative

Jointly designed by the AfDB and the European Investment Bank,
this initiative provides support to the earliest and riskiest stage of the
entrepreneurial value chain. Launched in November 2016 in Abidjan, it
addresses the first hurdles facing entrepreneurs in three ways.

o A Boost Africa Investment Fund, a fund of funds, invests in the
entire venture segment from seed to venture capital funds, which
themselves invest in innovative early-stage companies. Targeting EUR
200 million, the fund is expected to leverage three to five times the
amount of local capital invested. The Bank provided EUR 45 million
in equity participation.

© A technical assistance facility boosts intermediaries’ investment
readiness, trains investee companies, and builds the capacity of
commercially viable incubators and accelerators that provide “pipeline”
SME deals to the various funds.

© An Innovation Lab will foster a vibrant entrepreneurial ecosystem,
connect stakeholders, and stimulate innovation among Fundsupported SMEs.

trade, intra-African trade is hampered by poor infrastructure,
overlapping membership of regional trading blocs, and partial
implementation of regional commitments. Capital flows are
obstructed by poorly developed financial markets, and labor
mobility remains a sensitive issue. The ongoing negotiations for
the Continental Free Trade Area demonstrate the will of African
member countries to tackle some of these issues, but much
remains to be done to address the infrastructure constraints,
including transport and communications.

The Integrate Africa priority focuses on creating larger, more
attractive markets, linking landlocked countries to international
markets, and supporting intra-African trade to drive growth. It
is motivated by the view that regional integration can boost
cross-border trade, benefiting especially the thousands of
women involved in such trade; stimulate industrialization; and

BOX 4
Visa-free Travel for African Citizens across the Continent

Free movement of persons is one area of African regional integration where progress has been particularly
slow and uneven. Still, initiatives are under way. The Economic Community of West African States (ECOWAS)
is one of the rare regional economic communities in Africa to include a Protocol on Free Movement of
Persons, Residence, and Establishment. The first of the three phases foreseen by the Protocol—90-day
visa-free entry—has been implemented by all ECOWAS countries, and the proposal for a common passport

has been adopted by about half the membership.

At continental level, the African Union moved closer to its goal of achieving visa-free travel for African
citizens across the continent by 2020 when it launched the African Passport in 2016. Receiving his African
Passport in October 2016, the President of the Bank Group said that the document “will reduce the cost
of doing business on the continent” and expressed hope that “all the walls that separate us will go down.”

Annual Report 2016

foster regional cooperation in other areas. The Bank Group’s
Regional Integration Policy and Strategy 2014-2023 remained
the main guiding document for the Bank’s regional integration
interventions in 2016. The Bank is developing a new strategy.

Working with the African Union and the United Nations Economic
Commission for Africa, the Bank Group launched two instruments
to track progress on regional integration: The Visa Openness
Index and the Regional Integration Index. The first measures
how easy or difficult it is for African citizens to move across
countries in the continent. The 2016 edition revealed that the
majority of African countries (65 percent) require visas from
other African nationals while 25 percent of them issue such
visas on arrival. The launch by the African Union of the African
Passport in 2016 marked a milestone in Africa’s move toward
continental integration (Box 4).

The second instrument—the Africa Regional Integration Index—

is a composite measure based on such indicators as regional
infrastructure, intra-African trade, productive integration, free
movement of people, and macroeconomic integration. The index
shows how well each regional bloc is performing on regional
integration. The 2016 Report highlighted best practices, lessons,
and challenges in driving integration.

The Bank Group continues to support Regional Economic
Communities (RECs) to meet their integration aspirations. It
has undertaken trade facilitation projects (including national
and regional aid for trade strategies, export strategies, customs
reforms, and harmonization of standards and policies) with
funding from the Africa Trade Fund.

In 2016, the Bank Group approved a UA 8.3 million capacitybuilding project for the network of centers of excellence in
electricity—to improve the power sector’s performance and
boost regional trade through building core competencies.
Also approved in 2016 was a project for facilitating financial
integration in the West African Economic and Monetary Union,
valued at UA 4.6 million.2. Focusing Bank Group Operations on the High 5s

The Mombasa-Nairobi-Addis Ababa
corridor, part of the Trans-Africa
Highway network, received UA
241.6 million in Bank support.

Approvals for Integrate Africa came to UA 492.4 million in
2016, about 18 percent lower than in 2015 (UA 597.9 million).
They consisted of multinational projects in the transport and
communication sectors (representing 54.3 percent and 12.5
percent of approvals, respectively) and relevant financial sector
operations (33.2 percent of approvals). Approvals for Integrate
Africa are set to increase as the mapping methodology is finetuned and the Bank Group adopts an updated strategy in 2017
to drive this High 5s priority.

Transport

Transport is important to all High 5s, and especially critical to
the Integrate Africa and Industrialize Africa priorities. Poor road
networks and inefficient transport systems lead to high trade costs,
one of the major constraints to African firms’ competitiveness in
regional and global markets. Indeed, for landlocked countries,

 

a —= — —= ==

trade costs are about 1.5 times higher
than for coastal countries. Improved
transport infrastructure, alongside stronger
and better enforced transport policies
will contribute directly (and indirectly)
to intra-African trade and movement of
labor, jobs, and growth. It can also help
reduce Africa’s carbon footprint.

Among the 11 Bank-approved transport
operations totaling UA 1.24 billion in 2016 were four multinational
transport corridor projects valued at UA 267.2 million, and a
major study for the design of a highway link on the Abidjan—
Lagos corridor (UA 9 million). These projects involve building or
rehabilitating more than 260 km of roads, linking Rwanda and
Uganda (Figure 7), the capital cities of Lomé and Cotonou, and
a bridge on the Senegal River between Senegal and Mauritania.
In addition, a UA 165 million loan to the Government of Kenya
for rehabilitating a 172 km strategic road linking the inland town
of Ahero to Isebania on the Kenya-Tanzania border will facilitate
trade between the two countries.

Other approvals in the transport sector include a major
investment in railways in Morocco, the financing of 100 km of
urban roads and highways in Abidjan, Accra, and Kampala, and
the construction or upgrading of roads in Cameroon, Ethiopia,Annual Report 2016

Uganda — Rwanda Transport Project

On 22 June 2016, ADB approved
a USD 245 million loan to the
Governments of Uganda and
Rwanda for two important roads,
impacting both regional and local
activities. These two landlocked
countries have placed transport
infrastructure as key development
priorities.

DMC

Kagitumba @
°

 

ELE

.
:
KIGALI ore: Keyonze

5 ENR aes:
°
'°
e
Rusumo @

ee)
Poe ene

RWANDA

 

CENTRAL
CORRIDOR

 
 

BURUNDI

|

and Mozambique. Altogether, Bank approvals in 2016 will help
build or rehabilitate 1,120 km of roads, benefiting an estimated
17 million people.

The Bank Group also continued its strategic engagement
with key partners, including the Program for Infrastructure
Development in Africa (PIDA) and the Presidential Infrastructure
Champion Initiative (PICI). The Priority Action Plan under PIDA
comprises 51 programs and 433 actionable projects (mainly
in transport), and calls for cumulative investments of USD 68
billion, the bulk for energy (59 percent).The PICI is an effort by
Heads of State and Government to support priority regional and
continental infrastructure projects under the aegis of PIDA. In
2016, the Bank Group committed USD 250,000 in support of
coordination and secretariat activities at the New Partnership
for Africa’s Development (NEPAD) Agency.

UGANDA

LAKE
VICTORIA

aa EL)

the road

    

NORTHERN
CORRIDOR

 
 
 
 
 
 
   
       
   
  

KENYA

AO m LUMO)
Kampala — Busega — Mpigi
Dy ey
AfDB loan of USD 151 million
to build a new 23.7 km
EU Ce EN |
Cena cee K
center to Northern

Ceri E
USD 0.75

     
 

tt

ear

JOURNEY / WHAT C ES
Kagitumba — Rusumo

ee

Ca eUits ERO)

USD 5 USD 4
av Ts

Crag ele
LUfoF- Tye Fe teem a AVeUaL (2)
— Tanzania

 

TANZANIA

Information and Communications Technology

Better regional connectivity among African countries can boost
regional trade and integration. Good information and communications
technology (ICT) infrastructure and services support access to
information, and are critical to skills development, innovation, job
creation and, ultimately, economic growth and a better quality
of life. The Bank has traditionally supported ICT development
through regional (such as Connect Africa) and national initiatives,
and in 2016 it continued to do so through its lending activities.

Four operations in the ICT sector were approved for a total of UA
103.26 million, up 19 percent from 2015. Three of these were
multinational projects amounting to UA 61.4 million, including
the Trans-Saharan Optical Fiber Backbone. This project seeks
to extend high-speed broadband access to the citizens of Chad
and Niger by establishing links and consolidating interconnections

162. Focusing Bank Group Operations on the High 5s

with neighboring countries. It will strengthen the capacity for data
exchange and reduce the cost of broadband, with significant
spin-offs for the development of the digital economy in the subregion. It is estimated that, on completion of the project in 2020,
the penetration rate of internet services in Niger will double to
30 percent. The ICT sector's contribution to Niger’s GDP is also
expected to double—from 2.5 percent to 5 percent—contributing
to economic diversification and jobs, especially for young graduates.

Improve the Quality of Life for
the People of Africa

Despite high rates of economic growth over the past decade
or so, poverty and inequality remain pervasive in Africa, more
so among women. Unemployment, especially among the rising
youth population, remains a prime cause of poverty, with African
labor markets characterized by skills mismatches, low labor
productivity, underemployment, informality, and job insecurity.
Along with limited access to basic services, unemployment
reduces the quality of life for the people of Africa.

This priority cuts across social sectors, water and sanitation,
urban development, (domestic) transport and communication,
finance, environment, and multisector operations. Total approvals
in this area were UA 4.2 billion in 2016, a 14.5 percent rise
from the previous year.

In line with the Ten-Year Strategy and the Human Capital Strategy
2014-2018, the Bank Group supports human development in
all its core dimensions, including education, health, and nutrition.
In May 2016, it approved the strategy for Jobs for Youth in
Africa, aimed at harnessing Africa’s demographic dividend to
drive robust and inclusive economic growth. Mobilizing UA 3.5
billion over the next 10 years, the strategy will help create about
25 million jobs and have an impact on 50 million young people
over the next decade, by strengthening human capital, creating
durable labor market linkages, and creating better opportunities
for self-employment and entrepreneurship.

Water and Sanitation
Water security, as articulated in the Africa Water Vision 2025,
is an overarching goal of the Bank's activities.

A new water treatment plant in Nansio, Tanzania—part of a
larger project to improve water supply and sanitation—will
increase access to clean water, improve people’s health and
well-being, and support livelinood activities.

Operations totaling UA 877.1 million—a steep 120 percent
increase from the 2015 level and far exceeding the year’s target
of UA 525 million—were approved in 2016. Three of the largest
operations were Kenya’s sustainable town water supply and
sanitation program (UA 284.3 million); Nigeria’s inclusive basic
service delivery and livelihood empowerment integrated project,
aimed at rebuilding the northeast for shared prosperity (UA 114.7

7

BOX 5
Water for a Better Life: Niassa Provincial Town
Water Supply and Sanitation Project in Mozambique

The newly rehabilitated water treatment plant in Cuamba, on the strategic

Nacala trade corridor in northern Mozambique, financed by an ADF loan of
UA 18 million, was commissioned in April 2016. The project has improved
the quality of the water supply, reducing the incidence of diarrheal diseases
by 30 percent. Other impacts include:

© Extending coverage from 10 percent to 70 percent of the local
population.

© Reducing time for fetching water from an average of 1.5 hours a day
in 2009 to 0.5 hours a day.

© Lowering water loss (leaks, theft) from more than 50 percent in
2009 to 25 percent.

© Increasing daily hours of water supply from 1.5 hours in 2009 to
24 hours.

Maria Semoko, an inhabitant of Cuamba, and a beneficiary from the
project, said: “Our situation is difficult. My sister and | fetch water three
times a day. Walking 2 km with more than 8 liters of water is tiring...
In one month's time, we will have tap water! Our life will be easier and
our children will be cleaner.”

million); and Tunisia’s rural drinking water supply project, phase
II (UA 99.56 million). Nine projects were implemented under the
African Water Facility, five of them related to preparing projects
for water supply in agriculture.

Arehabilitated water treatment plant in Mozambique, completed in
April 2016 with an ADF loan of UA 18 million, brought immediate
benefits to more than 250,000 people, improving health and
the quality of life (Box 5).

Anew African Water Facility Strategy for 2017-2025, approved
by the Facility’s Governing Council in December 2016, will guide
governments in setting up policies, and institutional and regulatory
frameworks, for Public-Private Partnerships (PPPs). It will also
initiate PPP transactions and promote smaller enterprises as
service providers.

Human and Social Development

The Bank Group continued to implement the Human Capital
Strategy, with its vision to harness the potential of a billion
Africans by building skills, creating jobs, and promoting equal
opportunities. Operations in this area were guided by the TenYear Strategy’s focus on skills and technology and by the High
5s’ Jobs for Youth in Africa strategy.

Activities in 2016 focused on building skills to foster productivity,
competitiveness, and innovation; on promoting public health,
nutrition, and efficient social services; and on addressing fragility,
fostering entrepreneurship, and providing social safety nets.Total approvals for the social sector amounted to UA 535.6
million, in excess of the 2016 target yet 10 percent lower than
the previous year’s level. Of the 23 operations approved in 2016,
13 focused on education transformation (higher education,
research, and technical and vocational education and training) for
employment creation, with two regional operations supporting
science and technology development in three RECs. In Zambia,
for example, the Bank approved the Skills Development and

Annual Report 2016

  
 

FIGURE 8

Creating 9,000 Jobs per P:

1990-2000

JAN-DEC 2016

 

9,000 jobs per project in 2016, compared with 4,000 during
1990-2000 (Figure 8). The Bank is mainstreaming job creation
into its projects. In 2016, 16 of the 19 approved Country Strategy
Papers were aligned with the Jobs for Youth in Africa strategy
and 48 percent of Bank investments included an employment
component. Early momentum signals that the target of 2.5
million jobs a year over the next 10 years is within reach, as
the Bank positions itself to fully roll out the initiative.

Entrepreneurship Project (USD 30 million), which
will support youth and women’s employment
through the development of commercial value
chains for cassava. The project is expected to
benefit some 17,000 cassava farmers, including
women’s cooperatives. It will also contribute to
higher yields and higher value added through
agro-processing.

The remaining 10 projects were for social
safety nets and emergency interventions to
respond to health, nutritional, or environmental
concerns. These included the Bank Group’s
continued support in 2016 to the Ebola- and
Zika-affected countries, benefiting more than
320 million people in the ECOWAS subregion;
support to investment in nutrition through
the African Leaders for Nutrition Forum; and
emergency assistance grants for USD 1 million
each to stem malnutrition in Madagascar and
in Nigeria’s northeastern state of Borno.

Following the rolling out of the Jobs for Youth
in Africa strategy, Bank-approved projects in
2016 are expected to create an average of

=

Souk At-Tanmia, an
entrepreneurship initiative
of AfDB in Tunisia.

“| couldn’t set up on my
own business because

| didn’t have the financing.
| would prefer that the
cooperative continues to
be supported by the
program so we can keep
working here,” said a
member of the Andi
Sanaa carpet-weaving
cooperative. “Andi Sanaa”
translates as “I have
ajob.”

 

182. Focusing Bank Group Operations on the High 5s

A Bank-financed program in Cdte d'Ivoire, completed in 2016,
addressed short-term employment needs for vulnerable youth
in the aftermath of the 2010-2011 political crisis, and supported
structural reforms to improve the competitiveness of the future
labor force. A budget support operation, the project demonstrated
that effective dialogue with the government can yield immediate
results by spurring opportunities for employment (Box 6).

Cross-cutting Issues

Countries in Situations of Fragility

Africa is the continent most affected by fragility. Some 250
million of its people live in fragile situations, and about 19
million people have been displaced due to the upsurge in
violent conflicts since 2010. Fragility threatens to slow, or even
reverse, the development prospects of countries and entire
regions, making it harder for Africa to achieve the Sustainable
Development Goals’ “leaving no one behind.” Recognizing
that fragility is constrained neither by time nor national borders,
the Bank has adopted a multidimensional risk perspective and
applies a “fragility lens” to its engagement in such environments.
It champions “fragility-proofed” interventions aimed at building
resilience and promoting inclusive development.

During the ADF-13 cycle (2014-2016), 18 countries benefited
from increased resource allocation under supplemental support
from the Transition Support Facility (TSF) Pillar 1. In 2016, the
ADF approved 28 operations worth UA 174.8 million; 14 of
these projects worth UA 134.7 million were financed under TSF
Pillar 1 with the remainder financed under TSF Pillar 3. Pillar
1-financed projects targeted mainly governance (44 percent),
social sectors (24 percent), transport (13 percent), energy
(11 percent), and water and sanitation (5 percent). The AfDB
Multi-Partner Somalia Infrastructure Fund is a prime example
of international cooperation to assist a country in a situation of
fragility to rebuild after a devastating civil war that lasted more
than 25 years (Box 7).

Under TSF Pillar 3 (capacity building and technical assistance)
of the ADF-13 cycle, UA 40.1 million was approved by the end
of 2016, with an additional UA 16.47 million committed. There
was no activity under Pillar 2 (arrears clearance for eligible RMCs),
because of slow progress in negotiations with Somalia, South
Sudan, and Zimbabwe.

In 2016, the Bank Group completed eight fragility assessments —
for the Central African Republic, Democratic Republic of the
Congo, Djibouti, Eritrea, Madagascar, Sudan, Togo, and
Zimbabwe—and one regional fragility assessment report, for
Southern Africa. Twelve other fragility reports included two
thematic studies on youth and country systems. In addition, two
distinct fragility assessment tools—the Country Resilience and
Fragility Assessment Rating, and the Vulnerability Index—were
prepared by the Bank.

19

BOX 6
Success in Céte d’Ivoire — Youth Employability and
Insertion Support

Approved in December 2013 and completed in June 2016 at a cost of
UA 18.8 million, the project:

© Strengthened the education system for youth employability in a
competitive workforce.

© Created and operationalized a public-private dialogue platform for
youth employability.

© Strengthened the monitoring and evaluation culture for the relevance
of training for the labor market.

A total of 998 youths, about half of them female, were trained in
entrepreneurship, and 134 of them designed business plans that
received funding from commercial banks. In addition, 120 vulnerable
youths were trained in apprenticeship and provided with toolkits for
productive self-employment. The project created 1,500 jobs, with almost
half going to women.

Youth Beneficiaries of Youth Employability
and Insertion Support in Cote d'Ivoire.

 

BOX 7
The Somalia Infrastructure Fund

In October 2016, the Bank Group approved the Framework Document
for the establishment of the Multi-Partner Somalia Infrastructure Fund
(SIF). The SIF is part of a multilateral, coherent, and coordinated initiative
involving strategic partners to help consolidate peace and support long-term
development in postwar Somalia. The fund will mobilize USD 350 million
over the next five years to invest in infrastructure (notably energy, water and
sanitation, and transport and communication) and to support institutional
capacity building. In addition to helping Somalia reconstruct its war-torn
economy, the Fund will help create jobs. Initial seed financing for the fund
comes from the Department for International Development of the United
Kingdom (GBP 1.5 million), the Islamic Development Bank (USD 10 million),
and the Federal Government of Somalia through a grant from the Saudi
Authorities (USD 1 million). Somalia's ADF-14 allocation and other trust fund
resources managed by the Bank will be available to co-finance a pipeline
of activities that constitute core projects under the Infrastructure Pillar of
Somalia's new National Development Plan 2017-2019.Lessons from the fragility assessments have sharpened the
Bank Group’s focus, and allowed it to build greater resilience
into its programming in countries in fragile situations. During
the year, all new country strategy papers were fragility-informed
and accompanied by fragility annexes.

Promoting Gender Equality

The Bank Group continued aligning the three pillars of the Gender
Strategy—strengthening women’s legal and property rights,
promoting women’s economic empowerment, and enhancing
knowledge management and capacity building—with the High
5s in 2016, with a stress on:

© Making finance work for women by ensuring that women
entrepreneurs have access to affordable credit.

oe Ensuring that Bank operations in agriculture benefit women
smallholder farmers.

© Investing in women’s and girls’ education to build skills,
promote entrepreneurship, and improve their quality of life.

© Ensuring energy access for women, with a focus on renewables
and clean energy for cooking.

© Getting the enabling legal and regulatory environment
conducive to women’s voice and agency.

The Bank Group also continued to mainstream gender in
operations, including more systematic assessments of gender
issues in country strategy papers and sector strategies. The
AFAWA program is catalyzing financial and non-financial services
to support women in business (Box 8). The African Women in
Business Trust Fund is empowering women affected by the
Ebola outbreak in Sierra Leone (Box 9). The Gender Community
of Practice, an online platform, enables Bank focal points to
share information and support each other in promoting gender
equality in their departments. The Gender Marker System,
completed in 2016, tracks and evaluates how projects help
narrow gender gaps.

Supporting Governance and Accountability

The Bank Group’s governance work program is delivered
across three pillars, as articulated in the Governance Strategic
Framework and Action Plan 2014-2018: public sector and
economic management; sector governance; and improving the
business and investment climate. In 2016, the Bank supported
efforts to mainstream governance into all its strategic priorities,
while recognizing governance as a cross-cutting issue in its
lending and non-lending operations.

UA 1.84 billion went to
support governance
and accountability in 2016

Annual Report 2016

 

Responding to demand from RMCs for better governance
and basic services, the Bank continued to assist institutions
that promote good governance, accountability, and inclusion.
Twenty-two operations were approved for UA 1.84 billion, 14 of
them program-based (for UA 1.8 billion) and eight for institutional
support (UA 47 million). The bulk of financing came from the
ADB (83.4 percent), with 14.2 percent from the ADF and smaller
contributions from the TSF and the Middle-Income Country
Technical Assistance Fund.

Bank Group operations supporting public financial management,
addressing governance weaknesses, and fostering an enabling
business environment contribute to several of the High 5s priorities
simultaneously. Consider the Tanzania Power Sector Reform and
Governance Support Program, which enhances the economic
and financial viability of the Tanzanian power sector and promotes
private sector participation. The programs deliver directly on the
Light Up and Power Africa priority as well as the Industrialize Africa
priority, while contributing indirectly to other priorities, notably
Improve the Quality of Life for the People of Africa.

The Bank Group’s non-lending activities, partnerships, and
initiatives to promote good governance and a culture of

202. Focusing Bank Group Operations on the High 5s

accountability include the African Peer Review Mechanism, the
Partnership on Illicit Finance, and the AfDB-OECD Joint Initiative
to Support Business Integrity and Anti-Bribery Efforts in Africa.
The Bank held a seminar on illicit financial flows informing and
sensitizing a variety of stakeholders on the key issues of illicit
trade and bribery relevant to the African continent.

Africa contributes the least to greenhouse gas emissions and yet
bears the brunt of climate change impacts, which can exacerbate
food insecurity, displace people, and threaten livelihoods. The
poorest African countries, countries in fragile situations, and
women and children are most vulnerable to climate change.

The adverse effects of climate change continued to be felt on
the continent in 2016, as evidenced by the recent drought in
southern Africa, which forced Lesotho, Mozambique, and South
Africa to reallocate substantial amounts of government funding
to drought-relief programs.

Adaptation to climate change remains a critical priority for
many African countries, and climate change and environmental
considerations weigh heavily on the Bank's portfolio. Consequently,
all Bank-financed projects are systematically screened for climate
risks, and climate resilience is built into projects related to vulnerability
at the design stage using the Bank's Climate Safeguards System.
The Bank has also adopted a GHG (Greenhouse Gases) Accounting
Tool to assist Africa’s transition to low-carbon development in line
with the Ten-Year Strategy for promoting green growth.

As part of the efforts of multilateral development banks (MDBs)
to meet the agenda of the Conference of Parties (COP21) in
Paris, the Bank Group committed to tripling its climate finance
to USD 5 billion a year by 2020, or 40 percent of total approvals,
in all key sectors. Reaching that target will require leveraging
additional finance from public and private sources, and enhancing
the capacities of RMCs to tap global climate finance.

 

In March 2016, the Bank was accredited as an international
implementing agency of the Green Climate Fund. During the year,
financial resources were mobilized from the Global Environment
Facility, the Climate Investment Funds, and the ClimDev Africa
Special Fund. In 2016, the Bank Group approved 60 projects
with climate change mitigation or adaptation components,
amounting to USD 1,061 million, and leveraged about USD
700 million in co-financing.

The Bank engaged with key stakeholders in 2016 to promote
its climate-change agenda and leverage financing to meet
Africa’s adaptation needs. The highlight of the year was the
22nd Conference of Parties (COP22) in Morocco from 7 to 18
November. The Bank played an active role in both organizing
the Conference and its eventual success. It provided climate
experts to the Moroccan Government to help prepare for the
event and co-hosted (with the African Union Commission,
NEPAD, and the Economic Commission for Africa) the Africa
Pavilion—a platform for climate interventions targeting Africa,
including the Africa Renewable Energy Initiative—that has
become a regular feature since COP17 in Durban.

Other non-lending activities in 2016 included supporting RMCs
to implement their nationally determined contributions and
building their readiness to design and execute green growth
policies. The Bank is collaborating with the World Bank and
the African Union Commission in designing an Africa Climate
Resilient Investment Facility, which will mobilize resources to
build resilience into Africa’s infrastructure. Work is also under

  
 
 
  
 
 

 
   
 

AfDB supported wind power project.way to develop an Adaptation Benefit Mechanism —an innovative
tool that aims at providing a price signal to encourage private
engagement in adapting to climate change.

Bank Group Operations by Financing Entity
The Bank Group has three financing entities—the African
Development Bank, the African Development Fund, and the
Nigerian Trust Fund. In 2016, total approvals across all the
three entities (including Special Funds) amounted to UA 8.04
billion—a 27 percent increase from 2015 (Figure 9).

Total approvals for ADB increased by 40.2 percent to UA 6.34
billion in 2016, driven largely by public sector operations at UA
4.42 billion, about 50 percent higher than in 2015 and 19.4
percent over the year’s target (Table 2). This increase partly
reflects the change in the Bank Group’s Credit Policy since
May 2014, allowing eligible ADF-only RMCs to raise their level
of public financing by accessing resources from the ADB nonconcessional window. In addition, a few ADF-only countries
graduated to either “Blend” (such as Cameroon and Zambia)
or “ADB” (such as Congo) (see inside front cover).

Private sector operations totaled UA 1.92 billion (excluding
specials funds), 24 percent higher than the year before but 15
percent below target.

Annual Report 2016

Bank Group Total Approvals up 27 Percent,

2014-2016 (UA billion)

 

@ Bank Group @ ADB ® ADF

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

2014 2015 2016

Source: AfDB Statistics Department.

Notes:

1. NTF approvals are not shown as they are very small in UA amounts compared with
ADB and ADF approvals. NTF approvals for 2014, 2015, and 2016 were UA 11.49
million, UA 12.50 million, and UA 18.46 million, respectively.

2. Bank Group total approvals include Special Funds (not shown) amounting to UA
244.22 million (2014), UA 288.85 million (2015) and UA 160.32 million (2016).

Bank Group Total Approvals by Entity, 2015-2016 (UA million)

2016 Operations

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

2015

Entity Operations Actual Target
ADB Private* 1,549.54 1,918.47 2,250.00
ADB Public 2,968.68 4,416.86 3,700.00
ADB total* 4,518.23 6,335.32 5,950.00
ADF 1,515.12 1,521.24 1,418.00
NTF 12.50 18.46 18.00
Special Funds 288.85 160.32

Bank Group 6,334.69 8,035.34 7,386.00

 

 

Source: AfDB Statistics Department.
* Excluding Special Funds.
ADB total amount may not add up due to rounding.

 

Bank Group Approvals by Financing Instrument in 2016 (UA million)

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

ADB ADF NTF Bank Group
Total loans and grants 5,981.49 1,401.50 18.46 7,401.45
Other approvals 353.83 119.73 - 633.89
Of which:
Equity participation 205.43 = : 205.43
Guarantees 148.40 119.73 2 268.13
Special funds ce S 3 160.32
Total approvals 6,335.32 1,521.24 18.46 8,035.34

 

Source: AfDB Statistics Department.

222. Focusing Bank Group Operations on the High 5s

Bank Group’s Private Sector Operations

he Bank's private sector interventions in 2016—which emphasized
co-financing, syndication, and strategic partnerships with the private
sector—have strengthened its capacity to leverage and crowd-in thirdarty investors. These interventions lifted the ratio of private co-financing
(o Bank financing to 6:1, against the target of 5:1, which augurs well for
he Bank’s future engagement with the private sector.

During 2016, total Bank approvals for private sector operations amounted
(0 UA 1.93 billion, 24 percent higher than in 2015. Projects in the finance
sector accounted for the largest share of approvals (73.5 percent), followed
y energy (8.8 percent), transport (6.1 percent) and agriculture (5.7 percent).
Multisector operations and those in the social sector each accounted for
less than 5 percent of private sector approvals (Box Figure 2).

Private sector operations contribute not just to Industrialize Africa but to
he other High 5s priorities as well:

 

o Energy: Four projects were approved (UA 169 million)—a solar
photovoltaic project in Mali, hydropower projects in Uganda and Nigeria,
and a Pan-African Facility for Energy Inclusion.

© Transportation: One project was approved as a corporate loan (UA 117.5
million) to Ethiopian Airlines to support its expansion and strengthen
regional linkages.

© Agribusiness: Four projects were approved (UA 107.6 million), including
one to grow white rice in Senegal, one to preserve forest reserves in
Ghana, equity participation in the Fund for Agricultural Finance in Nigeria,
and a corporate loan to the Export Trading Company Group to finance
part of its five-year Agriculture Investment Program in Africa. These
are in line with the Bank’s strategy of promoting inclusive and green
growth, strengthening agriculture and food security, and improving
access to SME finance.

© Social sector: Three projects were approved—two equity investments
in health and a senior loan to Babalola University of Nigeria (the Bank’s
first private intervention in education), helping to Improve the Quality
of Life for the People of Africa.

BOX FIGURE 2
Private Sector Operations by Sector, 2016

Social 2%

     
  

; — Multisector 4%
Agriculture 6%
Transport 6%

Energy 9%
Finance 73% — ™

Source: AfDB Statistics Department

23

Bank Group’s Financial Sector Operations

Innovation and inclusiveness are at the core of financial sector operations.
In response to client demand, and in line with the Financial Sector
Development Policy and Strategy, the Bank deepened its use of innovative
financial instruments and broadened its toolkit, making strategic use
of contingent guarantee instruments such as partial credit guarantees.
Housing finance is another new area of Bank intervention, with considerable
potential for growth. For example, the Bank approved a senior loan of
ZAR 570 million (about USD 38 million) to South Africa's Vulumnyango
Trust to finance affordable housing programs in the country. By financing
4,386 housing units, the project will help convert 2,500-6,500 informal
settlements into proper housing and create over 10,000 jobs, including
about 3,250 permanent jobs for youths and up to 1,300 direct jobs for
women. By providing RMCs with access to affordable housing finance,
the Bank is contributing directly not only to Sustainable Development Goal
11 for Sustainable Cities and Communities, but to its own High 5s priority
to Improve the Quality of Life for the People of Africa.

The Bank continues to invest in inclusive financial solutions and business
models that promote universal access to financial services. In 2016, it took an
equity stake of UA 22 million in two funds investing in financial technologies
(fintech), including the Technology and Innovation in Developing Economies
(TIDE) fund, which will invest in companies that leverage new technology to
reduce the cost of services ranging from agribusiness to financial and social
services, thus expanding access to these services by households and firms.
The Bank also organized the first Digital Financial Services Week, bringing
together industry experts, fintech companies, and regulators to discuss
Opportunities for increasing access to finance. A technical assistance grant
of UA 7 million was approved to implement the Interoperability of Digital
Financial Services in the West African Economic and Monetary Union.

Throughout 2016, the Bank channeled funding to transformative
sectors—contributing to all the High 5s—through a raft of instruments.
Total approvals for financial sector operations amounted to UA 1.87 billion
in 2016, 38.5 percent higher than the previous year. Over half of this
amount (62 percent) went to the Industrialize Africa priority (Box Figure 3).

BOX FIGURE 3
Financial Sector Operations by High 5s

Light Up and Power
Africa 11%

_— Feed Africa 7%

   
  

Improve Quality
of Life 21%

Industrialize

Integrate
Africa 52%

Africa 9%

Source: AfDB Statistics Department.Each dollar of Bank investment
in private sector development
leveraged six dollars of
third-party co-financing

Approvals for ADF increased marginally to UA 1.52
billion in 2016, exceeding the target for the year
by 7.3 percent. Three operations were approved
under the Nigeria Trust Fund, amounting to UA
18.46 million. Approvals for Special Funds totaled
UA 160.32 million in 2016, 45 percent less than in
2015, and representing about 2 percent of Bank
Group approvals (Table 3).

Regional Highlights

The Bank Group’s operations in 2016 were guided
by the twin objectives of achieving inclusive and
green growth in a continent that continues to grapple
with poverty across all its regions. The fight against
poverty has become even more challenging as Africa’s
population continues to grow rapidly, creating massive
unemployment among the youth. Indeed, while the
absolute poverty rate has steadily declined, the number
of people living in poverty has increased (Box 10). The
persistence of poverty in Africa requires more aggressive
and targeted interventions by the Bank Group, and by
RMC governments. The Bank Group’s focus on the High
5s, and especially on jobs, is an appropriate response.

The Bank Group continued its decentralization strategy

in line with the new business model. The Bank
Group’s vision to be closer to its clients led to the
prompt establishment and staffing of five Regional
Development, Integration, and Business Delivery
Hubs, which are now responsible for delivering the
Bank Group’s operations in each region.

Of total approvals, Western Africa and Northern Africa
each accounted in 2016 for slightly more than onequarter. Southern Africa received the smallest share
(6.3 percent), a major change from its leading position
in 2015, and multinational operations accounted
for 17.4 percent (Figure 10). The sharp decrease in
Southern Africa’s share of approvals is attributable
to a mix of factors, including the fact that most ADFeligible countries had utilized their ADF allocations in
2015, leaving little for 2016, and some countries had
their country strategy paper processing schedule
delayed (due to the piloting of a new format), resulting
in financing of UA 992 million pushed to 2017.

Annual Report 2016

BOX 10
Poverty in Africa

Most recent data from 50 African countries indicate that the prevalence of poverty (in
monetary terms) has declined steadily from 56 percent of the population in 1990 to
41.5 percent in 2015. However, during the same period the number of poor people in
Africa has increased to about 400 million from 350 million, with about three-quarters
(73.5%) living in rural areas. Income inequality has also persisted, with seven of the
ten most unequal countries in the world being in Africa.

For sub-Saharan Africa, one in two rural Africans is poor and unable to meet her or
his basic needs (Box Table). A third of the urban population lives below the poverty line.

Non-monetary indicators of the standard of living of the African population have also
steadily improved since 1990, but even then, only 12 percent of rural populations
had access to piped water in 2015 (though up from 4 percent in 2001). The vast
majority of the population continues to rely on wells and surface waters as their
main source of drinking water. Also between 1990 and 2015, adult literacy rates
improved and gender disparities were reduced, according to UNICEF data. However,
the quality of education is often poor and 38 percent of African adults remain illiterate.

BOX TABLE
Population below the monetary poverty line in Africa (%)

Sub-Saharan

 

Africa Africa
Urban 29.5 33.0
Rural 48.5 50.7
All 41.5 44.4

 

Source: AfDB Statistics Department.

Total Bank Group Lending Approvals by Region, 2016

fora
Wi
ee
SOI
(25.8 percent)

     
    

ST a rl
NATIONAL

ee

 
 
 
 

Re
cre

242. Focusing Bank Group Operations on the High 5s

Equatorial Guinea

   
 

cor
a0 Tomé & Principe Q)

Central Africa

The Central Africa region
recorded real GDP growth

of 0.8 percent in 2016, lower

than the previous year. Growth

in Equatorial Guinea improved
but remained negative. Several
commodity exporters suffered from
adverse terms of trade in 2016. Others (such as Cameroon)
proved rather resilient, and the Central African Republic and
Sao Tomé and Principe improved their economic performance.

The Central Africa portfolio at end-2016 comprised 138 projects
with anet commitment value of UA 2,887.2 million. Cameroon
and the Democratic Republic of Congo, together, account
for two-thirds of the region’s portfolio, with the remaining five

Ketta-Sembé Road, Congo. “Our activities were restricted to
small-scale activities for individual consumption. Now, with
the new road, we can sell easily what we hunt, fish, and grow.”
Paul Nguia, village chief.

 

25

countries taking in less than 10 percent each. Multinational
projects represent 13.1 percent of the active portfolio, which is
dominated by operations in the transport sector (32 percent).

In 2016, Bank Group resources to the region totaled UA 609.7
million, with an additional UA 192.71 million of co-financing
mobilized. The largest project financed in 2016 was Phase II of
Cameroon's national program to support the transport sector, for
a total of UA 228.1 million—36.4 percent of funding mobilized
over the year. Other approvals were for projects contributing
‘0 the Bank Group’s High 5s priority to Feed Africa, such as
developing agricultural value chains in Cameroon and Gabon,
and supporting youth entrepreneurship in agriculture and agrobusiness in the Democratic Republic of Congo. A Bank-financed
ICT operation in the Republic of Congo will help break the
digital isolation of the country, especially its rural areas, linking
it to Cameroon and the Central African Republic. The project
is expected to reduce international bandwidth costs by more
han 60 percent; it will significantly improve internal and external
communication, boost regional integration, and help diversify
he Republic of Congo’s economy (Figure 11).

Several operations supported good governance, including policy
and institutional reforms and support to government budgets.
n the Democratic Republic of Congo, reforms were part of a
larger project worth UA 96.1 million, financed by a mix of Bank
and Fund resources, which aimed at improving efficiency in the
power sector. Cameroon received UA 12.1 million to support
public sector reforms and improve budget efficiency.

 

   
  

Eastern Africa
Real GDP growth in the region
slowed to 5.3 percent in 2016,
but even then it was the
highest in Africa. Economic
performance in most countries
was fair. In Ethiopia, growth fell
to 8.0 percent in 2016, from 10.4

percent the previous year. Ethiopia nevertheless remained the
fastest growing economy in the region, ahead of Tanzania (7.2
percent).

Comoros

Approvals in 2016 amounted to UA 1,392 million for 37 projects,
exceeding the target of UA 1,244 million. Approvals from the
Bank Group’s entities totaled UA 1,202 million (about 68 percentAnnual Report 2016

Broadband and E-services Development in the Republic of Congo

On 17 May 2016, the ADB approved
a USD 57.1 million loan to the
Republic of Congo to deploy 550
km of fibre-optic cables to connect
the city of Quesso to the borders
with Cameroon and the Central
African Republic. Part of the
regional Central Africa fibre-optic
Backbone (CAB), this segment will
improve communication in the
region, reduce the cost of access to
telecom and ICT services, and
contribute to social, economic and
financial inclusion within the country.

CONGO-CAMEROON
INTERCONNECTION

GABON

Mbinda

World
Bank’s
project

Dolisie *.
7 .
a

Source: AfDB
Map for illustration purpose only.

of the total), of which UA 788 million (45 percent) was sovereignguaranteed. Fund approvals (including TSF) amounted to UA
511 million (29 percent).

ADB approvals increased 120 percent from UA 545 million
in 2015, reflecting the Bank’s drive to expand its business in
Eastern Africa, now host to some high-profile projects (Box 11).
The Bank's portfolio for the region at end-2016 consisted of
217 projects with a total commitment value of UA 7.12 billion.
Infrastructure dominates the portfolio, with 69 percent of approvals.

With the private sector as the engine of growth in Eastern
Africa, Bank activities emphasized improving the business
and investment climate to support the sector’s development
in 2016. The Bank approved UA 545 million (81 percent of

CAMEROON

CONGO

CENTRAL AFRICAN REPUBLIC

    
 

CONGO-CAR

INTERCONNECTION ole Lg

the crossroad of
BUCO LSU
SIEUTeOReCe CSO OL
the missing links of the
Aerie Nee)
Bile oie
backbone

SMe as)
Access to internet and
ColeAV7= (oo) uu sya aco
a s

@ Ouesso

  
 

BRAZZAVILLE

CONGO-DRC
INTERCONNECTION

DRC

total approvals) for non-sovereign operations at regional and
national levels in sectors including finance, transport, and
energy. The facilities included equity participation, lines of credit,
partial credit guarantees, and two senior loans (for the Achwa 2
Hydropower Project in Uganda and for Ethiopian Airlines). The
energy project in Uganda will provide reliable, low cost, and
sustainable base-load power, addressing current shortfalls. The
Bank's lines of credit helped established firms to expand and
commercial banks increase their lending to SMEs.

AUSD 4 million partial credit guarantee to the Tanzanian Mortgage
Refinance Company—a non-bank financial institution with the
sole purpose of expanding Tanzania’s mortgage market and
thus supporting debut bond issuance—is expected to create
jobs and generate better access to affordable housing.

262. Focusing Bank Group Operations on the High 5s

BOX 11
Kenya—Sustainable Town Water Supply and Sanitation

The government of Kenya selected the Bank as a partner of choice to
finance the UA 284.3 million program that improves access to, and quality
of water supply and wastewater management services in 28 towns. The
project's goal is to catalyze commercial activities, drive economic growth,
create jobs, build resilience against climate variability and change, and
ultimately improve the quality of life of the people. More than 15,000 new
jobs are expected to be created during and after construction. The major
beneficiaries will be eight water service boards, more than 15 water service
providers, and town residents—with more than 2.1 million benefiting from
better water supply in 19 towns and more than 1.3 million benefitting from
better sanitation in 17 towns.

   
  

Northern Africa
Following the uprising

of 2011, the region is in
political, economic, and
social transition. Real GDP
growth in 2016 was 3.0 percent,
down from 3.3 percent the year
before. Libya remains hampered

by negative growth. Only Mauritania improved in a significant
way (to 3.1 percent)—albeit from a low growth rate of 2.0
percent in 2015.

The Bank Group’s main operational activities in 2016 assisted
the six countries in addressing their core development priorities
while staying aligned with the Ten-Year Strategy and the High 5s.

The Northern Africa portfolio as at December 2016 stood
at UA 6.82 billion across 156 projects and grants. Morocco
accounted for the biggest share of approvals (34.7 percent),
followed by Egypt (28.4 percent), and Tunisia (23.1 percent).
Algeria, a returnee to the Bank’s borrowing window after more
than a decade of absence, accounts for 11 percent of the
active portfolio, with the allocation to Mauritania taking up the
remaining 2.8 percent.

Approvals in 2016 amounted to UA 2.05 billion, up 82.9 percent
from 2015 and reflecting important budget support operations

in the region.

27

 

     
     
     

Tunisia drinking water project, Mornag province, Tunisia.
“It was never very clean. It was tough, even just to shower,”
said Issam Benkarim, a 32-year old blind farmer. Issam’s
determination to succeed has been boosted by the arrival of
fresh, clean water to his remote farmhouse in the rural area of
Ben Arous.

Among other operations were two major energy reform projects,
one in Algeria as part of the Industrial and Energy Competitiveness
Support Program (UA 700 million) and one in Egypt as a
component of a broader governance support program (UA 375
million). These projects were classified as ‘multisector’, which
accounted for 53.3 percent of the region’s approvals in 2016.
Other multisector operations included economic reform and
diversification in Mauritania and export development in Morocco.
Dominating approvals for the finance sector, at UA 341.4 million,
was a UA 208.3 million loan to Tunisia to help modernize its
financial sector. Tunisia also features prominently in the social
sector, with a project fostering inclusive regional development
valued at UA 140 million. Among other approvals in the social
sector was a project aimed at promoting SME development
in Mauritania. Agriculture made up 8.5 percent of approvals in
2016, and water and sanitation 5.2 percent.BOX 12
Weaving a Network of Handmade-Carpet
Manufacturers

Mosaad Omran is the chair and founder of an association that works to
develop a network of high-quality handmade carpet-makers in the village
of Saayet Abou Shaara, north of Cairo. He has always been involved
in carpets. Today he is even an active member of the Egyptian Export
Council for Handcrafts. The association he chairs, Handmade Carpets
Manufacturers Development Association, now has 86 weavers in, and
around the village. “Money, quality, and design—with all three of these
| am sure we can sell our carpets!” Omran said. “We need to launch
new designs, learn different types of carpet: Iranian and so on.” He also
has new ideas for investing in handmade quality carpets, renewing and
modernizing patterns, bringing in people to teach new techniques, and
approaching designers.

Omran’s association is one of the non-governmental organizations to
be assisted through the USD 2 million support to micro, small, and
medium enterprises in the Organic Clusters Project, financed by the
MENA Transition Fund with Bank support. The Egypt Social Fund for
Development, the Bank’s long-term partner, assures implementation. The
aim is to help businesses that mainly operate informally, and to increase
their contribution to promoting economic growth and employment in Egypt.

 

Annual Report 2016

The Bank Group’s support to the region through the MENA
(Middle East and North African region) Transition Fund has
helped micro, small, and medium enterprises—mainly in the
informal sector—expand their activities, contributing to economic
growth and jobs (Box 12).

  
 

As part of the Bank's strategy
to promote PPPs, the
North Africa PPP Hub was
established and has been
working with governments

to identify areas for building
capacity and strengthening the
PPP frameworks of Algeria, Egypt,
Mauritania, Morocco, and Tunisia.

Southern Africa

Economic growth in the region declined to 1.1 percent (from
1.9 percent in 2015), and remained weak across most countries.
Madagascar and Mozambique were rare bright spots, posting
growth rates above 4 percent, despite a dip in the growth rate
in Mozambique (6.6 percent in 2015). Botswana was back on
track with real GDP growth of 2.9 percent, after contracting by
0.3 percent in 2015. The region’s dismal economic performance
is due mainly to near-zero growth in South Africa (0.4 percent)
and lower growth in Angola (1.1 percent compared to 3.0
percent in 2015), two major commodity exporters hit by drought,
persistent power outages, and adverse terms-of-trade shocks.

The Bank’s total commitment to Southern Africa at end-2016
was UA 7.32 billion, representing 22 percent of the Bank's total
commitments to RMCs. With 35.2 percent of total approvals,
the energy sector dominates the portfolio, followed by finance
(23 percent) and transport (18.7 percent).

Total approvals in 2016 came to UA 507.3 million, mainly for
finance (27.3 percent), agriculture (21.6 percent), and water and
sanitation (20.0 percent). The largest operations approved in 2016
include lines of credit to the Development Bank of Namibia (UA
240 million) and the Botswana Development Corporation (UA
55.6 million), ADF loans for the Integrated Small Towns Water
Supply and Sanitation Program in Zambia (UA 98.5 million),
the Mueda—Negomano Road Project, Phase | in Mozambique
(UA 53.5 million), and the Lower Usuthu Smallholder Irrigation
Project Il, Phase Il in Swaziland (UA 42.6 million).

28

MauritiusBOX 13
Support to Local Economic Development in Malawi

Of the total project cost of UA 18.66 million, the Bank Group contributed
UA 14 million through an ADF loan, with the rest split between the
International Development Association (UA 3.04 million) and the
Government of Malawi (UA 1.62 million).

Started in March 2009 and finished in December 2016, the project aimed
to develop and sustain an entrepreneurship culture among individuals
and groups involved in economic activities related to agriculture and
microenterprises. Its benefits include:

© Increasing household incomes for 12,748 households.

© Recording 3,693 new business start-ups.

© Strengthening 10 cooperatives, 300 business commodity groups,
and 6,000 individual entrepreneurs.

© Imparting new technological and business management skills to
3,325 entrepreneurs.

© Enhancing access to business services of Malawi's Small and Medium
Enterprise Development Institute.

The Bank’s support to the RECs focused on capacity building
and support for regional infrastructure projects implemented
by the RECs on behalf of member countries. In 2016, the
Bank approved two Regional Institutional Support Projects
aimed at building capacity in public financial management. For
regional infrastructure, in the Southern African Development
Community (SADC), the Bank supported regional development
finance institutions, social sector projects, and transport
projects, including the Multinational Nacala project in Malawi,
Mozambique, and Zambia. The Bank has also financed SADC
water and sanitation projects and, in January 2016, provided

29

Kazungula 923-metre-long permanent rail and 4
road bridge between Zambia and Botswana. s
ae.

financial support to the SADC Secretariat to design the SADC
Regional Development Fund.

An ADF co-financed local economic development project in
Malawi, aimed at contributing to pro-poor growth and poverty
reduction in four districts, was completed in 2016, with some
notable achievements (Box 13).

Liber

Western Africa

The Western Africa region
posted the least impressive
economic performance of

all five regions in 2016. Real
GDP growth was 0.4 percent,
largely due to economic contraction
in Nigeria (-1.5 percent), Africa’s
largest economy. However, other
commodity-exporting countries, such as Ghana, were less affected
by declining commodity prices. Guinea and Sierra Leone recovered
from the direct and indirect effects of the 2015 Ebola epidemic in
West Africa, but Liberia’s performance actually worsened (from O
percent in 2015 to -0.5 percent). In contrast, Cdte d'Ivoire and
Senegal maintained their strong economic performance in 2016.BOX 14

Ghana’s Rural Growth

Approved in December 2007, the Northern Rural Growth program was to contribute to

equitable and sustainable poverty reduction and food security among rural households.

It developed commodity chains, provided rural infrastructure, and enhanced access to
tural finance. The specific objective was to sustainably increase northern Ghana’s rural
household incomes.

The ADF contributed UA 40 million of the total project cost of UA 68.4 million (about 60
percent), with the rest coming from the International Fund for Agricultural Development
(24 percent), the Government of Ghana (10 percent), the private sector (5 percent), and
the project beneficiaries (1 percent).

The project organized actors in each commodity value chain and facilitated provision of
finance, inputs, extension, and marketing by private agents. The infrastructure for these
value chains included about 60 feeder roads totaling 646 km, 13 pack-houses and

warehouses, and more than 3,000 hectares of agricultural water management schemes.

As a result of the project's contribution, productivity for maize rose 338 percent, soya 240
percent, and sorghum 280 percent. The volume of produce sold also climbed steeply owing
to the improvements in road access and value chains. The share of households with food
throughout the year rose from 50 percent to 63 percent.

results with the Northern Rural Growth
Program in Ghana (Box 14). —=:

Approvals for Nigeria in 2016 amounted
0 VA 1,310.4 million, half of which for
inancial sector and multisector (including
governance-related) operations. Among
other approvals were a public-sector
loan of UA 436.7 million for economic
governance, diversification, and
competitiveness support, and a Bank
joan to Babalola University of Nigeria
(the Bank's first private intervention in
education). An infrastructure project
0 rehabilitate roads in the Cross River
State, completed in 2016, brought many
benefits (Box 15).

hopes and prospects.

 

 

Several countries are developing their
“blue economy,” which encompasses
a wide range of activities based on the
ocean (such as port development and
related activities, sustainable tourism,
and renewable energy), marine resources

The Bank is committed to investing
in education which lifts children’s

Annual Report 2016

BOX 15

Cross River Rural Access and Mobility

An operation for the rehabilitation of 474 km of rural
roads in Nigeria's Cross River State was completed in
2016 with the support of a Bank loan of UA 39.4 million.
The project:

© Reduced travel time of up to 3 hours to major markets
and back.

© Reduced time from the farm gate to access roads
from 7 days to 1 day, so farm produce is arriving in
markets in premium condition, attracting higher prices.

© Nearly eliminated post-harvest losses, estimated at
30 percent in 2010.

© Lowered vehicle operating costs, with average savings
of NGN 5,000 per month per vehicle.

© Improved access to processing equipment from 72
percent of residents in 2013, to 91 percent in 2015.

The gains enhanced the competitiveness of farmers,
boosted farm incomes, and improved the quality of life
for residents.

The Bank’s active portfolio for the region at end-2016 comprised (fishing and seafood processing, aquaculture, and marine
214 operations for UA 3.34 billion. Approvals in 2016 were UA services), and other services (ocean knowledge and spatial
2,076.8 million, over three times those in 2015 (UA 686.6 million), marine planning). Such activities help diversify the economy
or a mix of reasons. Approvals for private sector operations and can generate higher value added in fishing and tourism.
were 45 percent higher than in 2015, showing a promising sign Countries riding this worldwide trend include Cabo Verde, Céte
of greater private sector activity. The ADF achieved significant d'Ivoire, Guinea, Nigeria, and Senegal.

  
 
 
  

30SCE.

ae Saran oe

orporate «
anagement

iF

As the Bank Group continued to reposition itself in implementing
its Ten-Year Strategy and the High 5s, Corporate Management
moved center stage with the adoption of the DBDM. Budget
reforms have been essential in realigning cost accounting with
the new High 5 priorities. Information technology upgrades are
interconnecting headquarters, regional resource centers, and
country offices. A new results framework now shifts the focus
from measuring to managing results. And the new business
model requires to ensure that the Bank recruits and retains
staff with the right skill sets and qualifications.

A key reason for adopting the new DBDM was the recognition
that the Bank Group’s process culture was not necessarily
results oriented, causing the Bank’s business to suffer. The need
for a stronger performance culture to improve organizational
effectiveness is one of the three core principles driving the
Bank’s transformation. It calls for changing the Bank Group’s
approach by inculcating a new culture of accountability, driven by
performance contracts and results orientations. Strengthening
the culture through execution, collaboration and impact on the
ground will move the Bank toward a better way of doing business.

Budget Reforms and Management
The Bank continued to implement its budget reform program in

2016. By December 2016, the Budget Manual had been drafted.

The cost-accounting system, designed in 2014, produced its
first comprehensive reports in May 2016 to aid planning, control,
and decision making. In related initiatives, a scoping exercise
for the Strategic Resource Assessment Software—the Bank’s

planning and budgeting tool— prepared for its revamping in 2017.

A process upgrade introduced during the year—Continuous
Programming—will allow cost centers and departments to
make budget submissions continually through the Bank’s

31

aA

 

Strategic Resource Assessment Software, contributing to greater
effectiveness and efficiency of the planning and budgeting process.

The Bank maintained tight cost-control measures across
organizational units and country offices, including leveraging
ICT to reduce travel and communication costs and overheads.
With the rollout of the new DBDM, the Bank embarked on a
thorough review of processes, programs, and budgets, including
key performance indicators.

The Bank aims to complete its budget reform program by 2018—
streamlining cost-accounting system reports, increasing use
of the Activity Time Recording System (ATRS), refining country
budgeting under the DBDM, and enhancing budget tools.

Information Technology

The Bank launched the unified communications infrastructure
projects and activities to extend or upgrade the IT infrastructure
at headquarters, Regional Hubs, and country offices—and to
enhance interconnectivity between Abidjan, Regional Hubs,
country offices, and the world.

These and other IT activities reduced costs. A new wide-area
network solution is estimated to have lowered connectivity costs
by 33 percent. A new framework agreement concluded with
Cisco gives the Bank a 60 percent discount on all purchases
over the next three years. And almost all recruitment interviews
with candidates based outside Cédte d'Ivoire in 2016 were by
videoconference.

The Bank launched InnoPitch (Figure 12), a platform open to all
Bank employees, to bring out innovative thinking. The five best
ideas (from among hundreds received) are being implemented.Leading innovation

INNOPitch
Promoting Change
and Innovation

  

Staff working together
roca)
the Bank

Uinle-ialiate}
the creative
thinking

InnoPitch has helped break down institutional barriers and built
trust with the staff, by inviting employees “to be the change
they want to see in the Bank.”

Environmental and Social Sustainability

The Bank Group continues to implement environmental, social,
and climate-change safeguards, often through partnerships.
The Integrated Safeguards System, approved by the Boards of
Directors in 2013, helps “climate-proof” the Bank's activities. All
Bank Group operations in 2016 were assessed and managed
according to strict environmental and social sustainability
objectives, and the Integrated Safeguards Tracking System
was used for the first time exclusively to receive, assign, and
respond to requests for project review (except readiness review).

In 2016, the Bank provided training to about 200 Bank staff,
country officials, and private decision makers in Cabo Verde,
Kenya, Morocco, and Mozambique on how to structure, analyze,
climate-proof, and finance projects that foster green growth.
The Bank also coordinated with the World Bank, the Economic
Commission for Africa, and the African Union Commission to
integrate climate risks at the design stage of projects requesting

AfDB staff

Be the change you want
Bo) - Miah aca sald

Annual Report 2016

BOX 16

MapAfrica 2.0

MapAfrica 2.0 is an interactive online tool that
shows how the Bank's projects relate to the High
5s and where the Bank is making an impact
on the continent. The portal gives the Bank's
stakeholders a better understanding of how
its activities contribute to local development,
and helps it allocate its resources to greatest
effect. The Bank aims to use MapAfrica 2.0
(mapafrica.afdb.org) to improve the planning of
its projects on the ground and to understand
where development gaps lie.

aid for project preparation. Such requests
will then be matched with the resources
available in the Project Preparation
Facility Network. The Bank has planned
aseries of activities in pursuit of its green
growth agenda—essentially the African
version of the Sustainable Development
Goals— emphasizing strategic cooperation,
resource mobilization, capacity building,
and policy advocacy.

Managing for Development Results
In addition to the traditional Annual
Development Effectiveness Review, the
Bank produced a thematic report on
agriculture, published 80 case stories, and
undertook a range of capacity-building
activities to sharpen its results-focused culture. A new Results
Measurement Framework for 2016-2025, prepared in 2016,
shifts the Bank’s focus from measuring, to managing for, and
delivering results.

The Bank is taking actions at five levels to increase its development
impact:

© Re-engineering the Results Measurement Frameworks internal
architecture to promote transformation in the High 5s areas;

© Aligning the Results Measurement Framework with corporate
priorities and the DBDM;

© Introducing a new methodology to better measure the
Bank’s impact;

© Tracking systematically the development results of private
sector operations; and

© Deepening the focus on gender results.

The Bank released in 2016, a new online tool—MapAfrica 2.0—
that enables anyone in the world to see at a glance, how the
Bank’s projects are boosting Africa’s economies and making
lives better for the African people (Box 16).

323. Strengthening Corporate Management

Bank Group Staffing and Employment Status as of 31 December 2016

 

 

 

 

 

HQ Field Offices
VPs & Directors & Advisors
EL3 Managers OtherPL _ GS Staff to EDs Total Res.Reps OtherPL GS Staff Total Total
Total Staff 9 111 765 397 39 1,321 22 333 188 543 1,864
Male 8 79 520 142 29 778 15 272 106 393 tA
Female A 32 245 255 10 543 7 61 82 150 693
% Female dial 28.8 32.0 64.2 25.6 414 31.8 18.3 43.6 27.6 37.2

 

Overhauling Human Resources

The DBDM calls for a major revamp of the human resources
function. Six work streams, focusing on communication and
key aspects of human resource management including talent
sourcing and staff engagement, were established to support
the transition. Processes were set up to refresh job descriptions
across business functions so that staff with the right skills
and qualifications could be recruited to vacancies in the new
organizational structure. Key senior management positions
were filled in Human Resources, Corporate Services, and
the regional offices (including Directors General and Country
Managers). Phase II of the Human Resources Action Plan
2016-2017 was revised in order to realign it with the changing
business requirements and with the work to design the new
People Strategy 2018-2022.

At end-December 2016, the number of Bank staff stood at 1,864
(1,884 if the President and Executive Directors are included), or
23 members more than 12 months earlier, with 1,171 men (62.8
percent) and 693 women (37.2 percent) (Table 4). Total Bank
staff at the executive/professional level came to 1,240, including
346 (or 28.0 percent) females. General service staff numbered
585, including 337 (or 57.6 percent) females. There were 142
staff-members at the executive/managerial level, including 40
(or 28.2 percent) women. A significant share of
Bank staff (71 percent) continues to be based at
the Headquarters. On the whole, the presence
of women was strongest among general service
staff at the headquarters (64.2 percent of this
category).

Donor Support and Replenishment

The Bank intensified its engagement with regional
and global partners, including the traditional donor
community, the European Commission, African
Heads of State, the African Union Commission,
the Economic Commission for Africa, private
foundations, and other philanthropic bodies. It
held three consultations in 2016 with donors for
the 14th Replenishment of the ADF (ADF-14).
The third and last replenishment consultation in
Luxembourg concluded with donors agreeing to
provide UA 4,224 million for 2017-2019, about

33

 

13 percent less than the amount raised during the ADF-13
replenishment. This outturn reflects very strong support from
some donors—either through increased grants or innovative
concessional donor loans and bridge loans, and, on the
other hand, lower contributions from donors facing tight fiscal
constraints and competing priorities. The recent depreciation
of a number of currencies against the UA (notably the euro
and the British pound) also meant that funds denominated in
these currencies amounted to less in UA terms, which weighed
negatively on the replenishment.

With a view to minimizing any adverse impact of the low
replenishment on the 38 ADF-eligible countries, the Bank Group is
contemplating ways to leverage the Fund’s commitment capacity
through other instruments (e.g. ADB Sovereign window, NTF,
and Trust Funds) and co-financing, while pursuing innovative
solutions to diversify the ADF’s funding base. An additional UA
3.1 billion will be needed to thoroughly implement the pipeline
of 178 operations that has been prepared for the ADF-14 cycle.

The Bank Group mobilized UA 93.8 million in 2016 for four
bilateral trust funds (30 percent of the total) and for thematic and
multi-donor trust funds (70 percent). These resources include
additional contributions from the Bill & Melinda Gates Foundation

Youths at Exhibition Stand at the AEC 2016, Abuja Nigeria.in support of the High 5s. The multi-donor trust funds include
the Somalia Infrastructure Fund and the Africa Integrity Fund,
both established in 2016. The Bank Group also led continental
effort at COP21 in December 2015, where the G7 countries
made pledges to the Africa Renewable Energy Initiative.

Under the Africa Growing Together Fund, USD 45 million was
approved for two Bank Group projects in the High 5s priority of
Improving the Quality of Life for the People of Africa. Under the
European Union-Africa Investment Facility, nine projects were
approved in 2016 for EUR 211 million in the High 5s priority to
Integrate Africa. The Bank Group continued to negotiate the
overall framework agreement for managing the Facility with the
European Commission.

The Bank as a Knowledge Broker

The Bank Group’s knowledge program in 2016, beyond the
usual flagship publications and annual events, included a series
of policy outreach and capacity-building activities aimed at
boosting the institutional, human, and statistical capabilities
of RMCs for more effective policymaking.

The Bank Group continued to conduct research on the continent's
development challenges and to offer solutions, as in:

© Key flagship publications; 2016 African Economic Outlook
on Sustainable Cities and Structural Transformation, 2015
Africa Development Report on Growth, Poverty, and Inequality
Nexus: Overcoming Barriers to Sustainable Development,
and five editions of the African Development Review, with a
special issue on aid and employment.

© Other publications, including 47 briefs, 38 working papers,
82 journal articles and book chapters and 7 books, including
Made in Africa: Learning to Compete in Industry; Inclusive

i

Annual Report 201

Korea-Africa Economic Cooperation Ministerial Conference
Ministerial Conference 2016.

Growth in Africa: Policies, Practice, and Lessons Learnt;
and Manufacturing Transformation: Comparative Studies of
Industrial Development in Africa and Emerging Asia.

© Workshops and conferences, including 57 presentations
to external stakeholders, and 52 research seminars within
the Bank Group, showcasing Bank staff research and that
of guest speakers.

The 2016 African Economic Conference, held on 5-7 December
2016 in Abuja, Nigeria, with the Bank as the lead organizer, was
a major event. “Feed Africa: Toward Agro-Allied Industrialization
‘or Inclusive Growth” attracted more than 500 participants
rom across the continent and beyond. Earlier in October, the
Bank, as co-organizer of the 2016 Korea—Africa Economic
Cooperation Ministerial Conference in Seoul, Republic of
orea, provided technical and analytical inputs to the event,
including background papers prepared under the Structural
Transformation of Agriculture and Rural Spaces project, which
‘ormed the basis for various high-level roundtable discussions.

In response to demand for more forward-looking debt sustainability
analytical tools, the Bank Group developed a new framework
© capture debt dynamics under various fiscal and public
investment efficiency scenarios. Following a request from the
Government of Malawi for the Bank’s assistance in developing
amacroeconomic model to provide inputs to its Medium-Term
Development Strategy Ill, 2017-2022, the Bank developed a
dynamic stochastic general equilibrium model in 2016 to simulate
policy scenarios for development planning for the country.

 

 

The Additionality and Development Outcome Assessment
(ADOA) for private sector operations contributes to ascertaining
quality-at-entry of Bank projects. A revised ADOA framework has
been implemented to enhance assessment by aligning private
sector operations with the Bank’s core strategic objectives and

343. Strengthening Corporate Management

to enhance transparency through a weighted-average ratings
aggregation method for development outcomes. Rigorous and
more focused on quality control, the revised framework has
been used on all Board-approved private sector operations
since 2008.

Over the years, the ADOA functions have moved beyond
project assessments and ratings to provide expert advice and
support to investment teams and managers. It helps articulate
development outcomes in private sector operations and design
these operations to maximize development impacts. ADOA
continues to play a key role in mainstreaming a results-oriented
culture at the Bank and beyond.

forestry sector in South Sudan and the Republic of Congo, and
supported the member countries of the Fisheries Committee
for the West Central Gulf of Guinea to ratify the Port State
Agreement on Illegal, Unregulated and Unreported Fishing of
the Food and Agriculture Organization of the United Nations.
Its knowledge-building activities included workshops on local
content policies, and negotiations in the extractive sector.

Other Training, Knowledge Management,

and Capacity Development Activities

Core activities included seminars and workshops for Bank
staff and RMC officials, as well as special institutional support
initiatives.

The performance o'

the ADOA on private sector operations in

2016 exceeded expectations, with 66 projects assessed and
149 ADOA Notes issued—an achievement rate of 213 percent
above the year’s target. In the future, ADOA will be extended to
public sector operations in human development, infrastructure,
and agriculture.

During the year,

he Bank held 14 workshops, including for

training trainers, on project monitoring and management aimed
at diagnosing constraints and designing solutions for more

effective results.

Nn program development, the Bank Group’s

capacity-development activities sought to mainstream innovative

capacity and en

repreneurship into Bank Group processes

Statistical Knowle
The Bank Group is

dge Products and Activities
he RMCs’ partner of choice for statistical

development and data issues in Africa. In 2016, the Statistics

Department's interventions enhanced RMC capacity to generate
timely and reliable data for macroeconomic surveillance and

 

policy managemen

as well as for monitoring progress on the

Sustainable Development Goals and the Bank Group’s High
5s. Its Africa Information Highway initiative was recognized by
the OECD-Paris21 consortium in 2015 as “one of the most
innovative data management and dissemination systems for
informing the [Sustainable Development Goal] agenda.”

After the decision of the Board of the International Monetary
Fund (IMF) in 2015 to start using AfDB’s data system for the
IMF’s own data management and dissemination work in Africa,
collaboration with the IMF Statistics Department was scaled up
and included joint technical assistance missions to 12 African
countries, to help them adopt best practices and international
standards for data management and reporting. The Bank also
expanded this collaboration to promote use of its data system
for the IMF’s work in Africa.

The African Natural Resources Center

Since its creation in 2013, the Center has delivered knowledge,
policy advice, and technical assistance to help RMCs develop
their natural resources wealth in ways that contribute to inclusive
and green growth in line with the Bank Group’s Ten-Year Strategy.
In 2016, the Center implemented three work streams—country
programs, knowledge building, and advocacy —that contributed
to advancing the Bank Group’s High 5s priorities. It provided
capacity-building support to the mining sector in Guinea, and
the gas sector in Tanzania, with the potential to double these
countries’ GDP and create thousands of jobs. The Center also
provided governance and capacity-building support to the

35

and operations around the High 5s. The Bank facilitated three
workshops on PPP for hydropower projects in Africa. Other
workshops were organized with regional and international
partners in areas such as domestic resource mobilization,
public financial management and accountability, and country
policy and institutional assessments and performance-based
allocation mechanisms, for senior financial management officials
in government.

 

These training activities will increase awareness and foster use of

competitive, fair, and transparent procurement systems, based on
the fundamental principles of economy, efficiency, effectiveness,
and equity, resulting in shorter delays in procuring goods and
services, better value for money, and reduce corruption. The
workshops on country policy and institutional assessments and
performance-based allocation mechanisms will help address
key issues and gaps in country portfolio performance reviews
to be promptly identified and addressed. The quality of financial
reporting should also be improved, and errors in disbursement
applications minimized.

In its contribution to policy management, the Bank with the
IMF held nine seminars on macroeconomic forecasting and
modeling. These seminars aim to build RMCs’ capacity for
independent and sound economic analysis.

Special institutional support initiatives were undertaken with the
African Capacity Building Foundation in financial management
and regional integration, and with the African Economic Research
Consortium in agricultural policy management. The Bank helped
officials from Guinea, Malawi, Rwanda, and Togo to take part in
training workshops on SME development policies in the Republic
of Korea. These workshop series provided opportunities to
participants to learn more about that country’s SME culture
and to exchange views and best practices.EY ih
Q NY

geebglede bole lec
Peat P cette t

  

itor cet am |
Oversight Activ
: '

Boards of Governors

As the highest decision-making organs of the Bank and the
Fund, the Boards of Governors undertook many activities in
fulfilling their mandates. These included the Fifty-first Annual
Meeting of the Board of Governors of the African Development
Bank and the Forty-second Annual Meeting of the Board of
Governors of the African Development Fund, held jointly from
23 to 27 May 2016, in Lusaka, Zambia. During these meetings,
the Governors held discussions with Bank Group Management
on the financial health and operational performance of the
Bank Group. They also approved major policies and adopted
resolutions on other key decisions and conclusions of the
Annual Meetings. In exercising their statutory duties, the Boards
of Governors adopted resolutions pertaining to the dates and
venues of the Annual Meetings for the following years, 20172021; the by-election of Executive Directors of the African
Development Bank; the general election of the Executive Directors
of the African Development Bank; the selection of Executive
Directors of the African Development Fund; the Annual Report
and Audited Financial Statements for the Financial Year-ended
31 December 2015; the allocation and distribution of Allocable
Income of the African Development Bank for the Financial
Year-end 31 December 2015; the distribution of part of the
income of the Nigeria Trust Fund for the Financial Year-ended
31 December 2015; the Annual Report and Audited Special
Purpose Financial Statements for the Financial Year-ended
31 December 2015; and the Remuneration of Elected Officers.

Other events and activities at the Annual Meetings were organized
under the theme “Energy and Climate Change,” including the
African Leaders Roundtable, the Bank Group President’s Dialogue
with Governors, and other high-level seminars.

Field Mission
to Egypt.

 

The Dialogue presented an opportunity for the Governors and
Management to discuss the Bank Group's response to the challenge
of supporting inclusive growth and the transition to green growth,
by scaling up investment and implementation of the Bank Group’s
Ten-Year Strategy, with a focus on the High 5s. The Governors
overwhelmingly endorsed the High 5s and commended the Boards
of Directors and Management for the progress in operationalizing
them. They also took note of the approval of strategies for the
New Deal on Energy and Jobs for Youth in Africa. Additionally, they
called for the early completion and speedy implementation of the
other strategies to accelerate the achievement of the Sustainable
Development Goals and Agenda 2063.

At the Dialogue, the Governors expressed support for the
concepts of co-development and co-financing espoused by
the Bank Group. They recommended specific areas for priority
intervention, including sustained support to the private sector;
increased investments in agriculture; continued emphasis on
investments in the infrastructure sector, especially energy, roads,
and water; the development of human capital; and the promotion
of climate-resilience and low-carbon development in Africa.

 

The Governors also noted with satisfaction that the Bank
Group had exceeded its lending targets for 2015, despite the
challenges associated with resettling the Bank at Headquarters.
This was a clear manifestation of the Bank Group’s continuing
resilience. The Governors commended the Boards of Directors,
Management, and staff for this accomplishment. They also
applauded the institutional reforms under way, including the
adoption of a new business delivery model. They stressed the
importance of continually attracting and retaining top-rated
talent through a well-managed incentive system.

 

 

 

36

Executive Directors4. Highlights of the Boards’ Oversight Activities

Boards of Directors

n 2016, the resident Boards of Directors, supported by their
subsidiary organs, contributed to moving the Bank Group’s
ransformation agenda forward. They provided strategic guidance
oward achieving the Bank Group’s annual performance targets
as well as a major reorganization of the Bank. The Boards of
Directors approved the DBDM and the updated decentralization
action plan. They also approved strategies for implementation
of four of the High 5s: agricultural transformation, energy,
youth employment, and industrialization. And they approved a
landmark compensation package for staff to position the Bank
as the employer of choice on the continent.

The Boards of Directors and their subsidiary organs participated
in 145 meetings and seminars. The Boards also undertook
consultative missions to Egypt, Ethiopia, and Malawi and to the
Bank’s East Africa Regional Resource Center and Southern Africa
Regional Resource Center. The visits enabled them to assess
he progress of Bank Group-financed projects and to engage
governments, development partners, the business community,
and civil society actors on the relevance and effectiveness of
he Bank Group’s strategy and presence.

Independent Evaluation of the Bank Group

The Independent Development Evaluation Department (IDEV)
completed 11 high-level evaluations and two impact evaluations
in 2016, in excess of its target for the year. Among the highlevel evaluations were the first comprehensive evaluations of
he Bank Group’s development results, seven country strategy
and program evaluations, and the Eastern Africa regional
integration strategy evaluation. All evaluations provided credible
information to shape current and future strategies, programs,
policies, and overall direction of the Bank Group. They also
helped the Bank demonstrate accountability to its stakeholders
and make evidence-informed decisions.

 

The seven completed country strategy and program evaluations
(in Burundi, the Democratic Republic of Congo, Ghana, Morocco,

IDEV's
Key
Evaluation
Areas

37

 

South Africa, Tunisia, and Zambia) assessed the development
results of the Bank Group’s assistance to these countries in
2004-2013 to generate evidence on impact and draw lessons
for the design of future country strategy papers and programs.
The Eastern Africa regional integration strategy evaluation,
covering 2011-2015, aimed mainly to inform the new Eastern
Africa Regional Integration Strategy, due for Board of Directors’
discussions in 2017. Also delivered in 2016 was an evaluation
synthesis on private sector development that will inform the
Bank’s future strategic and operational interventions.

The Comprehensive Evaluation of Development Results (CEDR),
(Figure 13) aimed to provide a credible assessment of development
results attained through the Bank Group assistance to RMCs
during 2004-2013 and a basis for accounting for the Bank
Group’s investments and to draw lessons to inform the design
and implementation of interventions supporting the High 5s.

It sought to determine if the Bank Group had achieved its
objectives, if it had proposed results-focused strategies and
programs, and if it had emerged as a valued partner in its
RMCs. It was based on Bank Group interventions approved
in 2004-2013 in 14 countries, representing almost 60 percent
of the Bank Group’s lending portfolio.

The CEDR Report recommended improving the positioning of
he Bank Group in its RMCs, refining Bank corporate services,
and enhancing Bank delivery. The Bank’s Management found the
recommendations actionable and appropriate for implementing
he High 5s, and accepted all of them.

DEV fulfilled a long-standing need to conduct impact evaluations
of the Bank’s development programs and projects. It began with
an impact evaluation of two rural water and sanitation programs —
one each in Ethiopia and Tanzania. These evaluations assessed
he net effects of the programs, focusing on the intended rural
beneficiaries’ use of improved water, diarrheal incidence, and
ime spent fetching water. They also assessed the likelihood
of sustaining the benefits of the programs. The two
governments and the ADF found the evaluation
findings and recommendations useful for informing
their rural water and sanitation programs, and for
developing appropriate strategies.

 

Compliance, Accountability,
and Intermediate Recourse Mechanisms

Compliance

Compliance Review and Mediation. The Unit

administers the Independent Review Mechanism—
the mechanism for people who are, or are likely to

be, adversely affected by Bank-financed projects. In

2016, it registered four new complaints, resolved and

closed two cases to the complainants’ satisfaction, and

continued to monitor five requests. The mechanismComprehensive Evaluation of Development Results

Annual Report 2016

 

What the CEDR is

The Comprehensive Evaluation of the
Development Results (CEDR) of the African
Development Bank Group (AfDB, or Bank) was
undertaken to provide an independent, credible
and evidence-based assessment of development
results achieved by the Bank. In addition to
contributing to

accountability

 

it identifies lessons and makes recommendations Guaa=D
to strengthen development outcomes and aims Gm»
to inform the implementation of the Bank’s

new strategic priorities. wy

What the CEDR examined

14 sample countries

 

The process

   

Project
Sta LVS] project results
1 4 ene assessments
across the
performance 14 countries
case studies Olu -Tg
Efe] cei-13) Portfolio Review
report
Qualitative
Comparative
Analysis across 1
the case studies
past evaluation
studies

CEDR Synthesis

169

South Aft

 

Bank lending to
the 14 countries was

USD 23.3B

which was close to 60% of approvals
during 2004-2013

2004 2013

 

 

Key findings

The Bank delivered results — but not
to its full potential with respect to
sustainable outcomes

More than half the
Bank-financed projects —

Less than a third

  

of the Bank inter
ventions examined,

had achieved or were

likely to achieve the intended
intermediate outcome

led to, or were

likely to lead to,
positive benefits

for the target groups

shared with Management lessons from handling complaints
and made various recommendations. Key among them are
proposals for the Bank to consider financing the cost of Bank
project-induced resettlements, and to strengthen technical
guidance to borrowers to implement institutional safeguard policies.

The Bank Group's intermediate recourse mechanism units serve
as agencies of corporate restraint and responsibility in resolving
conflicts and disputes and improving working relations among
staff and management. In 2016, several of these units were

The ambitious reform agenda on which the Bank has
embarked to transform itself into a result-oriented learning
institution has set it in a

right direction

The agenda is still to yield its full results

The Bank had

strong relationships

with its clients and partners and was trusted by some
countries, to act as advisor

The Bank found niches where the right mix of dialogue,
knowledge and lending led to good outcomes

reconfigured in line with the Bank’s new business model so that
they can deliver on the Bank’s priorities with greater effectiveness.

Ethics. In 2016, the Ethics Office underwent a reorganization in line
with the Bank’s new business model. The investigations function
was moved to the Integrity and Anti-Corruption Department, leaving
the office to focus on the ethics function. The key responsibility of
the office remains the same: to protect and safeguard the Bank’s
reputation, name, and image as well as those of staff. The Office
continued to provide ethical advice and guidance to staff and

384. Highlights of the Boards’ Oversight Activities

management on all matters of conduct and behavior, including
ethical dilemmas as well as conflicts of interest. It drafted a new
Code of Ethics in consultation with staff and Management, and
with reference to best international practices.

Accountability and Control

Audit. The Office of the Auditor-General spent over 93.1 percent of
its resources to cover 11 assignments in the Operations Complex
comprising 7 country portfolios and 4 other activities; 23 assignments
in the Board, Presidency, Finance, and Corporate Complexes;
and 5 field offices audits. An external quality assessment of the
Office of the Auditor-General, undertaken by the Institute of Internal
Auditors in 2016, produced the highest rating, confirming that
the Office is independent and objective in exercising its duties.

Integrity and Anti-Corruption. In 2016, the Board of Directors
approved an Integrity Due Diligence Policy for non-sovereign
operations, which seeks to minimize corruption and reputational risks
in Bank operations. The establishment of the Africa Integrity Fund
was also approved. Self-financed by fines and penalties imposed
on companies found to have engaged in sanctionable practices
through the Bank Group’s investigations process, the fund will
support anti-corruption measures and strengthen the transparency
and accountability of public resource management in RMCs.

During the year, 86 allegations of sanctionable practices were
received (up from 66 in 2015), 41 (38 in 2015) of which went
to investigation. Investigations led to the closure of 21 cases,
and three reports of findings of sanctionable practices were
submitted for the Sanctions Commissioner’s determination.
Investigations into 26 of 30 complaints of staff misconduct
received during the year were also completed, with reports
submitted to management for action.

<>

CORBUPTION

Your {0 counts

9th December 2015

 

Bank-organized workshop on
anti-corruption.

 

39

Recourse Mechanisms

Responding to ongoing decentralization, the Ethics Office has
developed ICT tools to help staff members in Regional Hubs
and country offices better manage their ethical dilemmas and
conflicts of interest. Through its investigations function, the
Ethics Office conducted 20 investigations related to staff conduct
during 2016, and for the first time, contributed information to
the Bank’s ratings assessment.

Ombudsman. |In 2016, the Office of the Ombudsman
received 110 cases, out of which 99 cases were handled and
closed within an average of four weeks in line with the key
performance indicators. The most common were on career
development and job security—60 percent. Outreach and
problem-solving missions to the field office in Zimbabwe and
the Southern Africa Regional Resource Center were undertaken.
Along with internal resource persons, 19 elected “values promotion
champions” received training in South Africa to augment service
delivery in the regional and country offices.

Administrative Tribunal and Staff Appeals Committee. The
year saw the completion of the 26th judicial session, with the
pronouncement of five judgments. In addition, the Staff Appeals
Committee held eight sessions, and heard 15 appeals. Of these,
six reports were submitted to the President.

Sanctions Appeals Board. The Sanctions Appeals Board
issued final decisions on two cases in 2016, and opened a
new case in December 2016. Among other activities, including
networking with counterparts in other MDBs, the Secretariat of
the Sanctions Appeals Board organized a seminar at headquarters
in Abidjan aimed at training and sensitizing staff on the Bank's
sanctions system.

Presentation to the President of the Institute of International
Auditors (IIA) Award on Accountability, Good Governance and
Transparency, received by Bank’s Audit Team.and Abridged

—

Peso OT”

   

In 2016, the Bank Group remained resilient amid the prevailing
global low interest rates, to record improved income compared
with that in 2015, across its three lending entities. The Bank
consolidated its triple-A rating and maintained its position as
Africa’s premier financial institution.

Financial Results

The Bank Group entities ADB, ADF, and NTF —realized higher
net income before distributions in 2016 compared with 2015
(Table 5). This was largely attributable to higher interest income
on increased volumes of loans and investments and realized
gains on treasury investments.

Detailed information on the Bank Group entities’ financial results
is available in a separate 2016 Financial Report.

African Development Bank

In 2016, the Bank earned income before allocation and
distributions approved by the Board of Govenors of UA 120.07
million, compared with UA 93.16 million in 2015. This increase
is primarily due to the combined effect of higher interest realized
on increased volumes of loans and investments and realized
gains on treasury investments. The gain on treasury investments
derived from the disposal of treasury investments previously
held at amortized cost. This was necessitated by the need to
rebalance the currency composition of the Bank’s assets in
2016 following the inclusion of the Chinese Yuan Renminbi
(CNY) in the currency basket, with effect from 1 October 2016.

The net interest margin fell in 2016, largely due to a reduction
in the performance of treasury investments. Interest income

AfDB treasury financial expert at work in the trading room
at the Bank Group’s Headquarters building.

from loans increased by 16.4 percent due to higher average
outstanding loans. The treasury portfolio continued to perform
above its set benchmarks. Overall, net interest income
increased by 5.91 percent during the year driven largely by
the higher average gross earning assets which increased by
14.36 percent.

Total Bank Group administrative expenses increased by 5.86
percent in 2016, primarily due to higher operational expenses. The
Bank's share of the total Bank Group’s administrative expenses,
included in “Other Expenses”, amounted to UA 130 million for
2016, compared with UA 122 million in the previous year.

The Bank’s reserves, plus accumulated loan loss provisions
on outstanding loan principal and charges, decreased to UA
3.26 billion at the end of 2016, compared with UA 3.35 billion
at the end of 2015.

Distributions Approved by the Board of Governors

In 2016, the Board of Governors approved distributions of UA
95 million from 2015 income to various development initiatives in
Africa. The beneficiaries of these distributions are listed in Note
N to the financial statements, included in the 2016 Financial
Report. In accordance with the Bank’s accounting policies, such
distributions are reported as expenses in the year the Board of
Governors approves them. The Board of Directors have also
agreed to recommend to the Board of Governors, at its Annual
Meeting in May 2017, distributions totaling UA 82 million from
2016 net income to various development initiatives in RMCs. If
approved by the Board of Governors, such distributions, and
any others that may be approved by the Board of Governors
during 2017, will be reported as expenses in the 2016 financial
statements, in line with the prevailing accounting practice.

40

A5. Financial Highlights and Abridged Financial Statements

Control of Administrative Expenses

To maximize the resources available for development financing
and technical assistance activities in its member countries, the
Bank continues to focus on a high level of budgetary discipline,
effective cost controls, and proactive cost-recovery programs
in managing its administrative and capital expenses. For the
year-ended 31 December 2016, the Bank Group’s general
administrative expenses, excluding charges for depreciation
and amortization, were UA 342.26 million, up from UA 323.30
million in 2015. For 2017, the Bank Group’s administrative
expenditure is budgeted at UA 368.35 million.

Risk Management Policies and Processes

The Bank’s development operations are undertaken within the
risk management framework of a clearly defined risk appetite
statement, capital adequacy and exposure management policy,
credit policy with guidelines, risk management governance
framework, an asset and liability management authority with
guidelines, and an end-to-end credit process.

The Bank seeks to minimize its exposure to risks that are not
essential to its core business of providing development finance
and related assistance. Accordingly, the Bank’s risk management
policies, guidelines and practices are designed to reduce exposure
to interest rate, currency, liquidity, counterparty, legal and other
operational risks, while maximizing the capacity to assume credit
risks to public and private sector clients, within approved risk limits.

Over the past few years, the Bank has enhanced its risk
management framework and end-to-end credit processes. Some
of these enhancements include establishing an independent
office (the Office of the Group Chief Risk Officer) responsible
for risk management across the Bank, reporting directly to the
President of the Bank; creating a strong Credit Risk Committee;
enhancing the training of Bank staff on credit risk assessment,
recruiting experienced and competent credit officers, and
implementing optimized credit risk assessment models. The
Bank has also strengthened the monitoring of the current
portfolio and continues to proactively undertake portfolio
restructuring measures including cancellation of long-standing

“signed but not disbursed” loans to free up capital for new
lending. Meanwhile, efforts to fully implement the operational
risk management framework, as approved by the Board of
Directors, are ongoing. Also in progress is the implementation of
an integrated workflow-driven software platform that is expected
0 allow all stakeholders involved in the credit risk assessment
process to streamline their work and enhance efficiency.

The Bank entered Exposure Exchange Agreements (EEAs) with
other Multilateral Development Banks (MDBs) in 2015 to optimize
its balance sheet, manage risks in its loan portfolio, reduce
sovereign-concentration risk, and increase lending headroom.
The EEAs involve a simultaneous exchange of equivalent credit risk
on defined reference portfolios of sovereign exposures, subject
‘0 each participating MDB retaining a minimum of 50 percent of
he total exposure to each country that is part of an EEA. The
participating MDBs have paid no credit protection fee (guarantee
premium) since the amount of exposure exchanged—purchased
and sold—is notionally the same at inception.

 

Under an EEA, the MDB that originates the sovereign loans
and buys protection continues to be the lender of record. An
exposure exchange does not affect the application of the normal
sovereign sanctions policies by the buyer of protection. The
EEA has final maturities in 2030 with linear annual reduction
of the notional amounts starting from 2025. On 31 December
2016, the total outstanding notional amount of credit protection
purchased or sold on the relevant underlying single reference
entities, which remained unchanged from the previous year,
was USD 4.47 billion (UA 3.33 billion). No default events have
occurred on any exposures covered under these exposure
exchanges, and the Bank continues to expect full recovery of
its sovereign and sovereign-guaranteed exposures.

The Bank continues to be well capitalized. The stress testing
of its capital adequacy shows that the Bank can adequately
withstand a number of extreme shock scenarios. The risks to
the Bank’s balance sheet are actively monitored on the risk
dashboard developed in 2012, which is regularly updated based
on the evolving risk profile of the Bank’s operations.

Abridged 2016 Financial Results of the Bank Group Entities

 

 

 

UA millions
Income from loans and investments

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Borrowing expenses and derivatives

 

 

 

Impairment charge on loans and investments

 

Translation gains/(losses) and other income

 

Net operational income
Other expenses

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Income before distributions approved by the
Board of Governors

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Distributions approved by the Board of Governors

 

 

 

 

 

NET INCOME/(LOSS) FOR THE YEAR

a

 

ADB
2016 2015 2015 I 2015
455.77 i 151.29 2.85 1.82

(178.03) -] 
(65.43) - 0.02

17.34 (2 (6.15) 2

22965 1 146.14 1.84

(136.49) (229.39) ( (0.45)

93.16 (83.25) 1. 1.39

(124.00) - (0.15)

(30.84) (83.25) 1.7 1.24The policies and practices employed by the Bank to manage
these risks are described in detail in Note D to the Financial
Statements, included in the 2016 Financial Report.

Bank Rating

The four leading international rating agencies— Standard and Poor's,
Fitch, Moody’s, and Japan Credit Rating Agency —reaffirmed their
AAA/Aaa and AA+/Aa‘1 ratings of the Bank's senior and subordinated
debts, respectively, with a stable outlook. The high ratings underline
the Bank's strong financial position, capital adequacy and liquidity.
In 2016, the Bank’s risk management function continued to
reinforce the Bank’s AAA credit rating by focusing on ensuring
sound Group-wide risk management decisions consistent with the
ongoing institutional change and transformation aimed at delivering
on the High 5s. The Bank also continued to benefit from the MDB
Sovereign Exposure Exchange Agreement with the World Bank and
the Inter-American Development Bank, which completed its first full
year of implementation. Indeed, Standard and Poor's confirmed,
in the course of its annual rating exercise, the efficacy of the MDB
exposure exchange in improving the Bank’s risk-adjusted capital
adequacy ratio. This improvement corresponds to an increase in
lending capacity of up to USD 10 billion.

 

African Development Fund

The Fund reported a lower deficit of UA 67.26 million in 2016,
compared with a deficit of UA 83.25 million in 2015, explained
primarily by the increase in investment income from UA 60.97
million in 2015 to UA 82.01 million in 2016. As the prevailing
low interest environment continued to depress the investment
income, the increase is largely due to realized gains on the
disposal of treasury investments previously held at amortized
cost. This was necessitated by the need to rebalance the
currency composition of the Fund's assets in 2016 following the
inclusion of the Chinese Yuan Renminbi (CNY) in the currency
basket, with effect from 1 October 2016.

Persistent deficits over recent years are due mainly to structural
changes to the Fund, including the cancellation of loans to
certain beneficiaries under the Multilateral Debt Relief Initiative
(MDRI, described in Note F to the financial statements) and the
increased grant element in the recent ADF resource allocation.

Loan income increased from UA 90.32 million in 2015 to UA
96.57 million in 2016, driven primarily by a higher lending
activities in 2016.

The Fund's share of the total shareable administrative expenses

of the Bank Group increased by 5.37 percent, due to the general
increase in the operational expenses. The Fund's share of these
expenses fell marginally to 62.14 percent for 2016, compared
with 63.14 percent for 2015.

The Fund continues to cancel qualifying debts under MDRI
for countries that have reached the Heavily Indebted Poor

Annual Report 2016

Countries (HIPC) completion point. No new country reached
the completion point during 2016. A summary of the cumulative
loan cancellations under the MDRI and HIPC is presented in
Note F to the Special Purpose Financial Statements, published
in the 2016 Financial Report.

Nigeria Trust Fund

The NTF’s income before distributions approved by the Board of
Governors increased by UA 0.51 million, from UA 1.39 million
in 2015 to UA 1.90 million in 2016, mainly due to an increase
in investment income.

The NTF’s share of administrative expenses of the Bank Group
increased by UA 0.11 million, from UA 0.36 million in 2015 to
UA 0.47 million in 2016.

The NTF’s reserves, net of cumulative currency translation
adjustments, increased by 16.76 percent from UA 41.29 million
at the end of 2015 to UA 48.21 million as at 31 December 2016.

A summary of selected financial metrics of the Bank Group
entities (ADB, ADF, and NTF) for the year ended 31 December
2016 is shown in Table 6.

Selected Financial Metrics of the Bank Group

Entities for 2016 (UA millions)

 

 

ADB
Assets

   
    
 
 

25,346.74

 
    

Net income/(loss) (30.84)
Comprehensive income/(loss) 105.93
Cash and cash equivalents 2,403.88
ADF

Net development resources 5,931.89
Deficit (83.25)
Cash and cash equivalents

NTF

Assets

Net income

Total comprehensive income
Cash and cash equivalents

 

Note: The full audited financial statements together with the related audit opinion are
available separately in the Financial Report 2016.

Conclusion

Overall, in 2016, the Bank Group remained sturdy, amid the
prevailing global headwinds of low interest rates, to record
improved performance across all the three lending entities. In
2017, it is expected that the Bank Group will consolidate its
position further and maintain its position as the premier financial
institution in Africa.

42Appendices

Appendix 1. Summary of Bank Group Operations, Resources and Finance,
2007-2016 (UA million)

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Cumulative
2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 Total 2
OPERATIONS
Bank Group Approvals »)
Number 100 133 181 139 184 199 317 232 241 305 5,279
Amount 3,097.64 3,528.73 8,064.49 4,099.75 5,720.29 4,253.75 4,385.78 5,049.92 6,334.69 8,035.34 96,008.49
of which HIPC. 153.17 159.87 372.56 202.95 1,350.85 248.00 22.32 : 46.96 - 6,158.28
Disbursements 1,615.68 1,860.91 4,083.59 2,510.70 3,174.11 3,379.53 3,133.95 3,156.96 3,025.00 4,680.15 56,120.21
ADB Approvals »)
Number 29 58 84 59 59 48 65 19 99 114 1,723
Amount 1,670.06 _ 1,807.01 5,604.07 2,581.13 3,689.43 2,080.46 1,831.70 3,201.30 4,518.23 6,335.32 57,664.50
of which HIPC. 2 113.75 112.77 144.14 1,178.04 134.58 9.64 : = - 3,158.22
Disbursements 884.75 727.63 2,352.29 1,839.85 1,868.79 2,208.17 «1,480.78 —1,938.53 1,619.17 3,221.75 32,828.78
ADF Approvals »)
Number 54 62 77 65 87 98 156 112 98 133 3,071
Amount 1,881.75 1,665.34 2,426.96 1,456.72 1,831.86 1,890.17 2,269.55 1,592.91 1,515.12 1,521.24 36,329.03
of which HIPC. 153.17 17.95 259.09 29.99 171.93 112321 12.68 : 46.96 - 2,936.91
Disbursements 725.00 1,124.92 1,726.43 1,165.84 1,296.65 1,169.60 1,702.21 1,215.30 1,398.86 1,447.41 23,031.39
NTF Approvals
Number = 2 3 2 3 3 5 2 2. 3 100
Amount = 28.16 5.70 29.53 10.88 14.10 31.17 11.49 12.50 18.46 469.93
of which HIPC = 28.16 0.70 28.83 0.88 1.20 + 2 = : 63.15
Disbursements 5.94 8.45 4.87 5.02 8.67 1.76 0.96 3.13 TAT 10.98 260.04
Special Funds Approvals °)
Number 17 an 17 13 35 50. a 39 42 55 385
Amount 45.83 28.21 27.76 32.38 188.12 269.03 253.36 244.22 288.85 160.32 1,545.02
Resources and Finance (at year’s end)
ADB
Authorized Capital 21,870.00 21,870.00 22,120.00 67,687.46 66,054.50 66,975.05 66,975.05 66,975.05 66,975.05 66,975.05
Subscribed Capital ® 21,693.16 21,765.14 21,817.58 23,924.62 37,322.00 65,215.04 65,210.13 65,133.22 65,482.51 65,486.15
Paid-up Portion » 2,351.53 2,356.01 2,359.32 2,375.63 3,289.06 4,962.68 4,962.34 4,864.52 4,884.41 4,897.37
Callable Portion 19,341.63 19,409.14 19,458.25 21,548.99 34,032.95 60,252.36 60,247.80 60,268.70 60,598.10 60,588.78
Outstanding Debt 6,198.87 6,707.28 10,580.64 11,980.57 12,902.96 13,278.80 12,947.44 14,375.95 16,449.27 20,644.15
Cumulative Exchange
Adjustment on
Subscriptions (160.08) (161.03) (161.97) (162.57) (160.63) (166.83) (172.65) (178.54) (168.84) (161.04)
Reserves 2,531.80 2,475.47 2,552.96 2,627.28 2,536.18 2,667.44 2,856.88 2,815.32 2,921.25 2,746.84
Gross Income ©) 578.62 564.45 518.88 519.32 489.18 553.64 479.64 484.73 455.77 536.02
Net Income 9 323.67 304.66 231.16 213.66 164.51 198.62 180.33 151.69 93.16 120.07
ADF
Subscriptions 15,218.76 16,566.02 17,854.02 19,030.32 20,428.32 21,622.28 23,084.05 24,921.04 26,122.31 27,226.94
Other Resources 171.27 280.27 305.27 355.27 390.27 425.27 509.96 551.96 602.96 645.96
NTF
Resources (gross) 273.47 286.78 156.73 160.86 162.74 164.62 165.77 168.28 169.88 176.79

 

Sources: AfDB Statistics Department for data on operations; AfDB Financial Control Department for data on resources and finance.

a) The cumulative figures go back to the initial operations of the three institutions (1967 for ADB, 1974 for ADF and 1976 for NTF).

b) Approvals include loans and grants, private and public equity investments, emergency operations, HIPC debt relief, loan reallocations, guarantee and Post Conflict Country Facility.

c) These are approvals on the operations of the African Water Facility and Rural Water Supply and Sanitation Initiative, Global Environment Facility, the Global Agriculture and
Food Security Program, the Climate Investment Fund, the Congo Basin Forest Fund, the Fund for African Private Sector Assistance, the Zimbabwe Multi-Donor Trust Fund,
Sustainable Energy Fund for Africa, Africa Climate Change Fund, Migration & Development Initiative Fund, MicroFinance Capacity Building Fund, Mena Trust Fund, Nigeria
Technical Cooperation Fund and the Organization of the Petroleum Exporting Countries.

d) Subscribed capital and paid up capital for 2005 were restated to exclude shares to be issued upon payment of future installments.

e) From 2013, dividend from equity participations were reclassified and included in gross income.
Starting from 2015, the gross income is net of interest on loan swaps.

f) Net income is before distributions approved by the Board of Governors.

The conversion rates are those for 31 December of each year.
The conversion rates of the ADB, ADF and NTF Unit of Account (UA) to US Dollar for various years are as follows:

2007 1 UA= 1.58025 US dollars 2012 1 UA= 1.53692 US dollars
2008 1 UA=1.54027 US dollars 2013 1 UA= 1.54000 US dollars
2009 1 UA= 1.56769 US dollars 2014 1 UA= 1.44881 US dollars
2010 1UA= 1.54003 US dollars 2015 1UA= 1.38573 US dollars
2011 1 UA= 1.53527 US dollars 2016 1 UA= 1.34433 US dollars

 

 

Percentages in the charts and tables of the Report may not add up to 100 due to rounding.

43Annual Report 2016

Appendix 2A. Bank Group Approvals by High Five Grouping,
2016 (UA million)

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

ADB ADF NTF SF Bank Group
Sector Number Amount Number Amount Number Amount Number Amount Number Amount
Light Up and Power Africa 13 1,171.31 19 296.34 2 14.46 16 23.55 50 1,505.66
Energy Supply 12 957.46 19 296.34 2: 14.46 16 23.55 49 1,291.81
Finance 1 213.85 = = = a = = 1 213.85
Feed Africa 25 616.82 13 209.57 1 4.00 8 37.94 47 868.33
Agriculture and
Rural Development 24 561.19 12 142.30 1 4.00 8 37.94 45 745.43
Finance “! 55.63 1 67.27 - - - - 2 122.90
Industrialize Africa 23 909.35 6 52.63 - - 1 6.88 30 968.86
Industry, mining and quarrying - - - - - - - - - Finance 23 909.35 6 52.63 - - 1 6.88 30 968.86
Integrate Africa 4 228.61 23 241.26 - - 2 22.50 29 492.36
Multinational
Communication = 2 8 61.39 : 5 7 = 8 61.39
Transport 1 64.87 16 179.87 - - 2 22.50 18 267.24
Finance 3 163.74 - - - - - - 3 163.74
Improve the Quality of
Life for the People Of Africa 49 3,409.24 72 721.43 - - 28 69.46 149 4,200.13
Education 7 31.1 4 12.82 - - 3 1.64 14 45.58
Health 4 16.49 2 6.31 - - - - 6 22.80
Gender Equity,
Population & Nutrition 1 0.71 2 2.00 - - 1 2.45 4 5.16
Poverty Alleviation
& Micro-Finance s = 4 13.15 1 1.26 5 14.41
Other Social 5 306.98 12 137.63 2 3.06 19 447.67
Water Supply and Sanitation 9 746.05 9 94.06 - - 15 36.98 33 877.09
Communication (National) 1 41.87 - - - - - - 1 41.87
Transport (National) 6 765.39 6 193.61 - - 2 13.13 14 972.12
Multisector 12 1,098.30 33 261.87 - - 1 1.36 46 1,361.53
Urban Development - - - - - - - - - Environment = . e = = s 3 9.58 3 9.58
Finance 4 402.32 - - - - - - 4 402.32
Total Approvals 114 6,335.32 133 1,521.24 3 18.46 55 160.32 305 8,035.34

 

44Appendices

Appendix 2B. Bank Group Approvals by Financing Instrument,

2016 (UA million)

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

ADB ADF NTF Bank Group

Financing Instrument Number Amount Number Amount Number Amount Number Amount
Project Lending 52 3,516.61 34 664.37 3 18.46 89 4,199.44
Public and Publicly — Guaranteed: at 1,970.18 34 664.37 3 18.46 58 2,653.01
Project Loans 18 1,548.39 32 652.16 3 18.46 53 2,219.02
Sector Investment and Rehabilitation 3 421.8 2 12.20 = = 5 433.99
Lines of Credit E = = = = 3 2
Private Non-Publicly Guaranteed: aT 1,546.44 - > - 31 1,546.44
Project Loans 12 387.45 - - - = 12 387.45
Lines of Credit 19 1,158.98 * > + + 19 1,158.98
Soft Comodity Finance Facility - - - - - - - Policy-Based Lending 10 2,087.47 11 211.80 : : 21 2,299.27
Sector Adjustment > - - - = - Structural Adjustment - = - a - - - Budget Support 10 2,087.47 14 211.80 2 = 21 2,299.27
Grants 34 21.85 68 358.60 : : 102 380.45
Technical Assistance 23 13.99 25 55.39 3 S 48 69.39
Project Cycle Activities = - 10 20.83 - - 10 20.83
Institutional Support - = 15 34.57 - - 15 34.57
of which Private Sector 3 S z 2 E 2 5 =
Middle Income Countries Grant 23 13.99 = = a = 23 13.99
Project Grants - > 11 125.47 - - 11 125.47
Structural Adjustment Grant - - - = - - - +
Budget Support Grant - - 5 43.23 - - 6 43.23
African Food Crisis Response Grant - - - - - - - Transition Support Facility Grant - - 27 134.50 - - 27 134.50
Special Relief Fund acl 7.86 - = - - 11 7.86
Emergency Assistance all 7.86 - - - - ant 7.86
Emergency Postconflict - - - - - - - Special Debt Relief Grant - - - - - - Loan for Institutional Capacity Building 4 355.56 7 138.69 - - 1 494.24
Loan for Transition Support Facility - - 4 28.05 - - 4 28.05
Project Preparation Facility - - - - - - - Debt and Debt Service Reduction = z 5 ® % = = 5
SFM Debt Alleviation = 3 8 é a s =
HIPC Debt Relief = = = + = = 2
Post Conflict Country Framework > - - > - - Equity Participation 12 205.43 . - - 12 205.43
Public Equity - - - - - - Private Equity 12 205.43 - - = - 12 205.43
Guarantee 2 148.40 9 119.73 . - 11 268.13
Public Guarantees z = 9 119.73 5 ® 9 119.73
Partial Risk Guarantees 2 Ee = e 3 e =
Private Guarantees 2 148.40 = a = e 2 148.40
Loan Reallocations = a & A z ie 2 a
Special Funds - - - - - = 55 160.32
Total Approvals 114 6,335.32 133 1,521.24 3 18.46 305 8,035.34

 

DBS

  
 

5: 1UA =U:

45Appendix 2C. Bank Group Total Approvals by Region (UA mi

 

Annual Report 2016

ion)

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Region/Country 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 1967-2016
Central Africa

Cameroon 47.3 45.5 143.8 447.9 323.0 2,308.7
Central African Republic 38.1 - 15.6 27.6 3.9 390.2
Chad 24.0 6.4 14.9 60.9 32.1 640.1
Congo 10.6 3.2 1.5 Aga 41.9 556.1
Congo, Democratic Republic of 69.0 204.9 187.1 40.7 138.3 4,211.4
Equatorial Guinea = = 0.8 - Eg 131.5
Gabon 145.4 = 1.6 = 68.5 1,524.2
Sao Tomé & Principe 0.5 I - 14.0 2.0 254.9
Central Africa Approvals 335.0 267.7 371.3 606.2 609.7 10,017.1
East Africa

Burundi 17.8 17.6 41.8 2 0.5 844.2
Comoros 2.6 35.9 4.0 8.0 = 174.6
Djibouti 8.4 5.6 = 8.2 6.3 210.9
Eritrea Ei = = 13.5 5.5 124.7
Ethiopia 166.0 85.7 66.6 182.3 314.4 3,394.2
Kenya 28.8 275.5 208.4 201.3 612.4 2,725.3
Rwanda = 54.6 99.4 20.2 43.8 1,175.9
Seychelles = 14.3 2.2 23.8 - 160.0
Somalia 5 3.5 2.9 19 22 183.5
South Sudan 4.8 27.4 0.7 2.0 5.0 39.8
Sudan. 4.3 25.6 = 58.9 24.5 474.8
Tanzania 154.6 42.1 98.7 549.2 219-1 3,005.8
Uganda 67.6 73.8 127.5 89.4 138.0 2,229.6
East Africa Approvals 454.9 661.7 652.1 1,158.7 1,392.0 14,743.2
North Africa

Algeria 0.8 = 0.8 29 717.5 2,618.3
Egypt : a7 46 512.8 370.7 4,675.4
Libya : 25 z : = 3.1
Mauritania 9.1 Ae 45 : 26.5 612.9
Morocco 901.2 206.1 313.5 267.7 426.6 8,108.4
Tunisia 354.6 28.6 67.8 337.9 509.5 6,307.3
North Africa Approvals 1,265.7 242.6 391.4 1,121.2 2,050.8 22,325.4
Southern Africa

Angola é 22.9 662.1 385.7 2 1,444.9
Botswana = - = - 55.9 Aat A
Lesotho = 20.1 = 2 15.7 369.9
Madagascar 2.3 81.7 65.9 34.4 57.9 1,189.6
Malawi 52.6 59.0 23.1 35.1 38.4 1,219.8
Mauritius a 99.0 76.8 12 = 930.5
Mozambique 78.0 26.5 28.7 18.6 60.0 1,574.6
Namibia 0.5 199.4 = 263.1 0.4 637.8
South Africa 273.1 = 264.8 274.5 30.3 4,751.3
Swaziland 0.5 = 45.8 0.9 43.3 392.2
Zambia 62.5 158.0 53.5 264.5 170.6 1,828.8
Zimbabwe 16.1 44.4 * 40.4 34.7 914.8
Southern Africa Approvals 485.6 710.7, 1,220.7 1,318.3 507.3 16,825.7
West Africa

Benin 31.2 46.4 26.4 = 773.8
Burkina Faso - 86.9 32.2 58.9 1,158.5
Cabo Verde 1.2 67.1 12.7 3.2 365.2
Céte d'Ivoire 238.6 63.4 30.6 305.6 2,598.4
Gambia 6.9 18.3 6.3 6.7 319.1
Ghana. 168.8 14.2 58.6 112.2 2,328.1
Guinea 113.6 22.4 13.1 16.5 1,005.2
Guinea-Bissau 0.7 = 0.6 0.7 392.9
Liberia 37.8 45.4 13.7 31.2 813.1
Mali OF 136.0 64.6 39.8 1,260.2
Niger 54.6 12.6 z 63.1 766.2
Nigeria 63.9 530.9 1,009.9 1,310.4 6,406.6
Senegal 48 tate 52.7 99.1 1,478.8
Sierra Leone 23.5 28.6 7.0 A 649.4
Togo 2.9 23 8.6 18.1 398.4
West Africa Approvals 749.2 1,185.6 1,337.0 2,076.8 20,713.8
Multinational 963.3 1,317.5 1,077.4 1,398.8 11,383.2
Total Approvals 4,253.8 4,385.8 5,049.9 8,035.3 96,008.5

 

 

s

AfDB

  

46Appendices

Appendix 3A. Board of Governors of ADB: Voting Powers of Member

Countries as of 31 December 2016

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Country Governor Alternate Total Votes Voting Powers %
T_ Algeria Hadj Babaammi Miloud Boutabba 274,084 4211
2 Angola Augusto De Sousa Archer Mangueira Job Graga
3 Benin Aaboulaye Bio Tchane Romuald Wadagni
4 Botswana Ontefetse Kenneth Matambo Taufila Nyamadzabo
5 Burkina Faso Hadizatou Rosine Coulibaly Sory Ambroise Kafando
6 Burundi Domitien Ndihokubwayo Céme Manirakiza 15,992
7 Cabo Verde Olavo Correia * 5,569
8 Cameroon Louis Paul Motaze Charles Assamba Ongodo 70,472
9 Central African Republic Felix Moloua Henri Marie Dondra 3,345
10 Chad Mariam Mahamat Nour Mahamat Allamine Bourma Treye 4,903
11 Comoros Djaffar Ahmed Said Hassani Fouady Goulame 1.167
Ingrid Olga Ghislaine
12 Congo Calixte Nganongo Ebouka Babackas 29,984
13 Céte d'ivoire Niale Kaba. Adama Kone 241,966
14 Congo Democratic Republic of Henri Yav Mulang Lamy Lamiel 84,177
15 Djibouti llyas Moussa Dawaleh Ahmed Osman Ali 1,838
16 Egypt Tarek Amer Sahar Nasr 358,641
17 Equatorial Guinea Miguel Obiang Engonga Valentin Ela Maye 10,056
18 Eritrea Berhane Habtemariam Martha Woldegiorghis
19 Ethiopia Abrham Tekeste : 102,606
20 Gabon Regis Immongault Christian Magnagna 71,397
21 Gambia,The Abdou Kolley Abdoulie Jallow 10,421
22 Ghana Seth Terkper Abdul-Nashiru Issahaku 138,326
23 Guinea Kanny Diallo Malado Kaba 26,630
24 Guinea-Bissau Henrique Horta Dos Santos Domenico Sanca 2,083
25 Kenya Henry Kiplagat Rotich Kamau Thugge 93,601
26 Lesotho Tlohang Sekhamane Tom Mpeta 4,349
27 Liberia Boima Kamara Mounir Siaplay
28 Libya Osama S. Hamed Salah Ali Mohamed Salem
Frangois Marie Maurice Gervais
29 Madagascar Rakotoarimanana Pierre-Jean Feno 0.646
30 Malawi Goodall Edward Gondwe Ronald Mangani
31 Mali Boubou Cisse Konimba Sidibe
32 Mautitania Mohamed Ould Kembou Cheikh El Kebir Ould Chbich 0.067
33 Mautitius Pravind Kumar Jugnauth Dharam Dev Manraj 0.660
34 Morocco Mohammed Boussaid Driss El Azami El ldrissi 233,159) 3.582
35 Mozambique Adriano Afonso Maleiane Rogerio Lucas Zandamela 38,846 0.597
36 Namibia Carl Hermann Gustav Schlettwein Ericah B. Shafudah 0.351
37 Niger Kane Aichatou Boulama Ahmat Jidoud 0.245
38 Nigeria Kemi Adeosun Mahmoud Isa-Dutse 8.877
39 Rwanda Claver Gatete Uzziel Ndagijimana 0.140
Maria Do Carmo Trovoada
40 Sao Tomé & Principe Americo D’Oliveira Ramos Pires De Carvalho Silveira
41 Senegal Amadou Ba Papa Amadou Sarr
42 Seychelles Louise Rene Peter Larose Caroline Abel
43 Sierra Leone Momodu Lamina Kargbo Edmund Koroma
44 Somalia Mohamed Adam Ibrahim Bashir Ise 2,566
45 South Africa Pravin Jamandas Gordhan Mcebisi Hubert Jonas
46 South Sudan Stephen Dhieu Dau Ayik Kornelio Kariom Mayiik
47 Sudan Badr Eldien Mahmoud Abbas Magdi Hassan Yassin
48 Swaziland Martin Gobizandla Dlamini Hlangusemphi Dlamini
49 Tanzania Philip Isdor Mpango :
50 Togo Sani Yaya Kossi Assimaidou
51 Tunisia Mohamed Fadhel Abdelkef ‘
52 Uganda Matia Kasaija Keith Muhakanizi
53 Zambia Felix Mutati Fredson Kango Yamba
54 Zimbabwe Patrick Anthony Chinamasa Willard L. Manungo 134,196
TOTAL REGIONALS: 3,856,932
1 Argentina Alfonso De Prat Gay Federico Sturzenegger 6,472
2 Austria Johann Georg Schelling Edith Frauwaliner 29,540
3 Belgium Alexander De Croo Johan Van Oovertveldt 47,992
4 Brazil : ‘ 24,411
5 Canada Stephane Dion Rob Stewart 251,529
6 China Zhou Xiaochuan Yi Gang 76,784
7 Denmark Martin Bille Hermann Nathalia Feinberg 77.109
8 Finland Elina Kalkku Satu Santala 32,280
9 France Odile Renaud-Basso Guillaume Chabert 243,836
10 Germany Thomas Silberhorn Marianne Kothé
11 India Arun Jaitley Shakitikanta Das 17,251
12 Italy Pier Carlo Padoan Filippo Giansante 157,792
13 Japan Taro Aso Haruhiko Kuroda 366,292
14 Korea lIho Yoo Juyeol Lee 31.778
15 Kuwait ‘Anas Khalid Al-Saleh Hesham Al-Waqayan 29,833
16 Luxembourg Pierre Gramegna Georges Heinen 13,637
17 Netherlands Lilianne Ploumen Christiaan Rebergen 57,209
18 Norway Tone Skogen Henrik Harboe 76,663
19 Portugal Mario Centeno :
20 Saudi Arabia Yousef Ibrahim Albassam Ahmed Mohammed Al-Ghannam
21 Spain Luis De Guindos Jurado lrene Garrido 69,904
22 Sweden Ulrika Modéer Magnus Lennartsson 102,336
23 Switzerland Raymund Furrer Chantal Nicod
24 Turkey Osman Celik Ahmet Geng 22,137
25 United Kingdom Priti Patel James Wharton 114,024
26 United States of America Jacob Joseph Lew Catherine Novell 425,657
TOTAL NON REGIONALS 2,651,858
GRAND TOTAL 6,508,790 700.000

 

Source: AfDB Treasury Department.

Note: * Vacant

47Annual Report 2016

Appendix 3B. Board of Governors of ADF: Voting Powers of State Participants
and of the ADB as of 31 December 2016

 

 

 

Country Governor Alternate Total Votes Voting Powers %
1 African Development Bank 1,000.000 50.000
Augusto De Sousa Archer
2 Angola Mangueira Job Graga 0.364 0.018
3 Argentina Alfonso De Prat Gay Federico Sturzenegger 0.069 0.003
4 Austria Johann Georg Schelling Edith Frauwallner 18.865 0.943
5 Belgium Alexander De Croo Johan Van Oovertveldt 20.875 1.044
6 Brazil * a 5.409 0.270
7 Canada Stephane Dion Rob Stewart 71.148 3.557
8 China Zhou Xiaochuan Yi Gang 20.339 1.017
9 Denmark Martin Bille Hermann Nathalia Feinberg 25.476 1.274
10. Finland Elina Kalkku Satu Santala 19.077 0.954
11. France Odile Renaud-Basso Guillaume Chabert 103.860 5.193
12 Germany Thomas Silberhorn Marianne Kothé 104.538 6227
13. India Arun Jaitley Shakitikanta Das 3.541 O17
14 Italy Pier Carlo Padoan Filippo Giansante 54.126 2.706
15 Japan Taro Aso Haruhiko Kuroda 107.262 5.363
16 Korea \lho Yoo Juyeo!l Lee 10.365 0.518
17 Kuwait Anas Khalid Al-Saleh Hesham Al-Waqayan 7.263 0.363
18 Luxembourg Pierre Gramegna Georges Heinen 0.547 0.027
19 The Netherlands Lilianne Ploumen Christiaan Rebergen 42.852 2.143
20 Norway Tone Skogen Henrik Harboe 46.296 2.315
21 Portugal Mario Centeno a 5.951 0.298
Ahmed Mohammed

22 Saudi Arabia Yousef Ibrahim Albassam — Al-Ghannam 10.894 0.544
23 Spain Luis De Guindos Jurado Irene Garrido 22.996 1.150
24 Sweden Ulrika Modéer Magnus Lennartsson 51.634 2.582
25 Switzerland Raymund Furrer Chantal Nicod 37.150 1.858
26 Turkey Osman Celik Ahmet Geng 1.583 0.077
27 United Arab Emirates 2 * 0.312 0.016
28 United Kingdom Priti Patel James Wharton 101.905 5.095
29 United States of America | Jacob Joseph Lew Catherine Novelli 105.352 5.268
TOTAL 2,000.000 100.000

 

Source:

  

fDB Treasury Department.

 

Note: * Vacant

48Appendices

Appendix 4. Directors of the Bank and Fund

The Board of Directors of the African Development Bank
Chairperson: Akinwumi Ayodeji ADESINA

 

Executive Directors

Alternate Executive Directors

 

Abdelmajid MELLOUK! (Morocco)
Hau Sing TSE (Canada)

arin ISAKSSON (Sweden)
Dominique LEBASTARD (France)
Soraya MELLALI (Algeria)
Amadou KONE (Cote d'Ivoire)
Heinrich Mihe GAOMAB (Namibia)
Martine MABIALA (Gabon)
Mohamed ZAGHLOUL (Egypt)
Patrick Francis ZIMPITA (Malawi)
René OBAM NLONG (Cameroon)
Vacant (USA)
Ronald MEYER (Germany)
Tarik AL-TASHANI (Libya)
wabena Boadu OKU-AFARI (Ghana)
Nyamajeje Calleb WEGGORO (Tanzania)
Bright Erakpoweri OKOGU (Nigeria)
Hiromi OZAWA (Japan)
Mmakgoshi E.P. LEKHETHE (South Africa)
Domenico FANIZZA (Italy)

 

Yandja YENTCHABRE (Togo)

Thamer M. ALFAILAKAWI (Kuwait)

Vacant

Cristina FRANCO-MARTIN (Spain)

Alfredo Paulo MENDES (Guinea-Bissau)

Bernardo ABAGA NDONG MAYIE (Equatorial Guinea)
Judith KATEERA (Zimbabwe)

Edith BELEM DAMIBA (Burkina Faso)

Ali MOHAMED ALI (Djibouti)

Boniface Godirafetse MPHETLHE (Botswana)
Donatien MALEYOMBO (Central African Republic)
Vacant (USA)

Vacant

Hussein Abdi HALANE (Somalia)

Patrick Saidu CONTEH (Sierra Leone)

Vacant

Maria Das Neves C. BATISTA De SOUSA (Sao Tomé and Principe)
Saleh BARABBA (Saudi Arabia)

Bheki Sibongaye BHEMBE (Swaziland)

Eric HILBERINK (Netherlands)

 

The Board of Directors of the African Development Fund
Chairperson: Akinwumi Ayodeji ADESINA

 

Tarik AL-TASHANI (ADB)

Hiromi OZAWA (Japan)

Nyamajeje Calleb WEGGORO (ADB)
Mmakgoshi E.P. LEKHETHE (ADB)
Amadou KONE (ADB)

Heinrich Mihe GAOMAB II (ADB)
Soraya MELLALI (ADB)

Ronald MEYER (Germany)

Martine MABIALA (ADB)
Dominique LEBASTARD (France)
Domenico FANIZZA (Italy)

Hau Sing TSE (Canada)

Karin ISAKSSON (Sweden)
Vacant (USA)

Hussein Abdi HALANE (Somalia)

Saleh BARABBA (Saudi Arabia)

Vacant

Bheki Sibongaye BHEMBE (Swaziland)
Bernado ABAGA NDONG MAYIE (Equatorial Guinea)
Judith KATEERA (Zimbabwe)

Alfredo MENDES (Bissau Guinea)

Vacant

Edith BELEM DAMIBA (Burkina Faso)
Cristina FRANCO-MARTIN (Spain)

Eric HILBERINK (Netherlands)

Thamer Mohammad ALFAILAKAWI (Kuwait)
Vacant

Vacant (USA)

 

Source: AfDB Office of the Secretary General.

49Annual Report 2016

Appendix 5. Principal Officers of the Bank Group as of 31 December 2016

PRESIDENCY, UNITS REPORTING TO THE PRESIDENT, AND UNITS REPORTING TO THE BOARDS

 

 

President ADESINA Akinwumi Ayodeji
Director of Cabinet/Chief of Staff MOYO Sipho

Secretary General NMEHIELLE Vincent Obisienunwo Orlu
Group Chief Risk Officer TURNER Timothy

Special Envoy on Gender FRASER-MOLEKETI Geraldine Joslyn
General Counsel and Director N’GARNIM-GANGA Helene

Auditor General OKONKWO Chukwuma

Director, Integrity & Anti-Corruption BOSSMAN Anna

Director, Compliance Review & Mediation TOURE Sekou

Evaluator General NANGIA Rakesh

SENIOR VICE PRESIDENCY

Senior Vice President LEAUTIER Frannie Ann Frances

OFFICE OF THE CHIEF ECONOMIST AND VICE PRESIDENT, ECONOMIC GOVERNANCE AND KNOWLEDGE MANAGEMENT

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Chief Economist and Vice President, Economic Governance and Knowledge Management MONGA Célestin
CORPORATE SERVICES AND HUMAN RESOURCES.

Vice President KACOU Albéric
FINANCE

Chief Financial Officer and Vice President BOAMAH Charles Owusu
PRIVATE SECTOR, INFRASTRUCTURE AND INDUSTRIALIZATION

Vice President GUISLAIN Pierre Albert L.
POWER, ENERGY, CLIMATE AND GREEN GROWTH

Vice President HOTT Amadou
REGIONAL DEVELOPMENT, INTEGRATION, AND BUSINESS DELIVERY

Vice President SHERIF Khaled
Director General, Central Africa DORE Ousmane
Director General, East Africa NEGATU Gabriel
Director General, North Africa EL AZIZI Mohamed
Director General, Southern Africa KANDIERO Tonia

Director General, West Africa LITSE Janvier Kpourou
AGRICULTURE, HUMAN AND SOCIAL DEVELOPMENT

Acting, Vice President KAPOOR Kapil

Source: AfDB Human Resources Management Department.

50Appendix 6. Organizational Structure of the Bank Group

Appendices

tay

 
 
 
 
 

 

 

 

   

301440 NOLLWN
-Ia¥009 NOLES
“LUNI TWNOID3U
sau
391440
NOLLWNIdHOOO
SALV1S NOWISNVEL
4904
aoa inanuuvesa +
NOLLWNIGOOo
SAECO AWLNNOO VINADIN
a AWIONVNI4 OM1aNd ‘OvNS SMHV
HWWHO SNOLM10s ANanD 7 NV JONVNYAAOD 391440 3a.LLINWOO- eaioa en ogy
aun any eden vSiaNiS S1addv 44v1s 1sam —|
SHOIAUAS HL1V3H ae eee ‘wuaNa 4o.194uia
‘WNOLLWdNd90 Noa oe
CNY WoIGaW — waLNJO S3OuNOSaY vsns _| uVNS Huy
oppreee, il “WUN.LN NYOIUY HOWJOSNOWONYS [ —_—NOILVANAS3Ud3u quid ANaWdO73A30 soau
ANAWAYILaY 44V1S WNYALX VISV ANaWdOTAAG aa. STIDIS GNV HLNOA Nuad Rinoet]
SHO ‘avoa WoNs NV TVIHLSNGNI “Wildvo NVIWNH AOANS aye ‘WwuaNao YoLOauIG
SPINE Se np) SLALULSNI LNB 301440 NVWsanaWo OSNS
ANawaovNvW 7 “OTRAS Nvoltdy fp -SONVIdWoo GNV noid oDHY usad Noau
sIHO. ORIGNYNE =e sauynoasvs ANaWdo7aAaa 131008 TIAIO ANY NoWinoad HLYON —|
SaOIAUaS: 1s03 giinsau NV@HN 8 SAILIO NaWOM "H3GN3D_ enuisuy eco ‘WwuaNnao 4O1OauId
Che To SOLLSLVLS NV LNAW3OVNYW -} Dons eee
SuneaWLiiva SONVINHOSUad SONVuNssv ALTIVND. aH aoqy
wHHO any WouWenigoN | mae ‘Award [> GNV LWidvLauoas ald ANaWd013030 903d isva ANAWSDVNVW SO uAGeau ee 33.LLINWOO- ANaWdO7Aa0 aWwundd ® SONVNId HIMOUD N3IUO & aWaaNad YOLOSUIG
sa0unosau NYWNH ahvaNlises: an SNOLLVEdO YOLOAS TVIONVNId Wwun.inolwoy SONVHO SLVWIIO
iS
mig “HOS ‘AOTIOd Aortod ooay
SOHO OHINOD TWIONYN “| S2INONODS-OuOWIN ANaWauNDOud ? _| gdNs asid HY asad AWHLNSO -]
ANAW3uNOOUd ANY NOLLOSdSNI ‘LNA {- 4a5qana Nv ANaWwdo7aA3a AMLSNGNI-OWOY ANaWdO13A30 ‘WwusNad YOLOSUIG
SAOIAWSS TWHANID “JDVNVW TVIONVNIS ‘SNINWVEDOud YO.LO3S ALVA B aNNLINOWOY SWAISAS HAMOd
utd 8 Auvionald
| ANAWADVNVN
AUNS VAHL a dSNS auaarag ssanisna
eT COENEN) tans |_ saloriod RrelnraNePeT ANawdo13A3a Ertoye) CON ae E rT
Pn Ee EER ERIN Avidviayoas OWS -| “WNOLLWHadO ee Peer ET BRT) PEE eke ai ey Brae eC
EM erry Pelee) ‘NV das HOLOawIG NV ADaLVHLS PTE DEANERY ERTL aeTN POET ERE ieTy BCE
Wuod
see ALWHOLOTUIG LNSWADVNVW SIX dnOwD
Auluno3s |
199d
Higa S3OIAYAS 1VD37 GNV 13SNNOD
Soria Soi PI) “WH3N39 SHL 4O 301440
Beye fel CE rol fell
ugod 93Sd
4 AvIdVL3HO3S TVHSNAD &
SNOILV13Y TWNUALXS ® NOLLVOINNWINOO: qvuaNao*Auy Lu9gs 3Hi 40 4oLuO
dlvd | avsa
WNHOS LNSWLS3ANI VOIUsV ee GuVOd SIvaddv SNOLLONVS
SHL OL LvIdvLa4O3S
Sod _|
AANIGV9 4O HOLOSHIG 8 44VLS 4O 43IHO wuog
NOILVIGAW GNV M3IAaY JONVIIdWOD
Ovid
NOWdNYHOO-ILNY uve
NV ALIYDSLNI 40 301440 WNNSIYL SALLVELSININGY
Wyvyd | Azag
‘WuAND HOLIGN 3HL 40 30I4d0 = + — — — — ~~ — HONUA NOILVNWAa LNAINdO73Aad LNSGNadaqNI

 

51Appendix 7. Abbreviations and Acronyms

ADB African Development Bank

ADF African Development Fund

ADOA Additionality and Development Outcomes
Assessments

AFAWA Affirmative Finance Action for Women in
Africa program

AfDB African Development Bank Group

AGTF Africa Growing Together Fund

AMBD Committee on Administrative Matters Concerning
the Board of Directors

ANRC African Natural Resources Center

AREI Africa Renewable Energy Initiative

AUC African Union Commission

BEP Blue Economy Program

CAADP Comprehensive African Agricultural
Development Program

CAPI Computer Assisted Personal Interviewing
CAR Central African Republic

CAS Cost Accounting System

CCAP Climate Change Action Plan

CNY Chinese Yuan Renminbi

COMESA Common Market for Eastern and
Southern Africa
CRFA Country Resilience & Fragility Assessment Rating
CRM Compliance Review and Mediation
CSP Country Strategy Paper
CSPEs country strategy and program evaluations
CWHOLE Committee of the Whole on the Budget
DAPEC Delivery, Accountability and Process
Efficiency Committee
DBDM Development and Business Delivery Model
DSA Debt Sustainability Analysis
e-GDDS _ extended General Data Dissemination Standards
EARC East Africa Regional Resource Centre
ECA Economic Commission for Africa
ECAM Committee for External Communications and the
Preparation of the Bank Group Annual Meetings
ECOWAS Economic Community of West African States
EEAs Exposure Exchange Agreements
EQA External Quality Assessment
ESDA Education for Sustainable Development
EU-AITF — EU-Africa Infrastructure Trust Fund

FAO Food and Agricultural Organization
FSO financial sector operations

GEF Global Environment Facility

GHG Greenhouse Gas

Gok Government of Kenya

GPC Partial Credit Guarantee

HCPI Harmonized Consumer Price Indices
HIPC Highly Indebted Poor Country

va

FSC

wntscorg
MIX

Paper from
responsible sources

FSC™ C130488

IACD
IDEV
IFAD
IPPF
IRM
ISOs
ISS
ISTS
IWRM
JfYA
KOAFEC
MDBs
MDRI
MENA
MGDS
MSME
MSP
NBEIP
NDCs
NDF
NEPAD
NTF
OECD

PAP
PBA
PBOs
PICI
PIDA
PPFN
PPPs
PSO
RBF
RDIBD
REC
RIPoS
RISPs
RMCs
RSFM
RWSSI
SADC
SDGs
SEFA
SIF
SME
SRAS
TMT
TSF
TYsS
WSPs

Integrity and Anti-Corruption Department
Independent Development Evaluation
International Fund for Agricultural Development
Infrastructure Project Preparation Facility
Independent Review Mechanism

institutional support projects

Integrated Safeguards System

Integrated Safeguards Tracking System
Integrated Water Resources Management
Jobs for Youth in Africa

Korea-Africa Economic Cooperation
Multilateral Development Banks

Multilateral Debt Relief Initiative

Middle East and North African region
Medium Term Development Strategy
Medium Scale Enterprises

marine spatial planning

National Blue Economy Investment Plan
Nationally Determined Contributions

Nordic Development Fund

New Partnership for Africa’s Development
Nigeria Trust Fund

Organisation for Economic Co-operation
and Development

Priority Action Plan

Performance-Based Allocation
Program-based operations

Presidential Infrastructure Champion Initiative
Program for Infrastructure Development in Africa
Project Preparation Facility Network
Public-Private Partnerships

Public Sector Operations

Results-Based Financing

Regional Development, Integration and Business Delivery
Regional Economic Communities

Regional Integration Policy and Strategy
Regional Integration Strategic Papers
Regional Member Countries

Risk Sharing and Finance Mechanisms

Rural Water Supply and Sanitation Initiative (RWSSI)
Southern African Development Community
Sustainable Development Goals

Sustainable Energy Fund for Africa

Somalia Infrastructure Fund

Small and Medium Scale Enterprises
Strategic Resource Assessment Software
Transformation Management Team

Transition Support Facility

Ten-Year Strategy

Water Service ProvidersAfrican Development Bank Group
Avenue Joseph Anoma

01 BP 1387 Abidjan 01

Céte d'Ivoire

Telephone: +225 20 20 40 10
Email: afdb@afdb.org

Website: www.afdb.org

ISSN — 1737-8990