African Development
Bank Group

    

b RAG ee ee

 

pee eT

 

PAvbee oe

AFRICAN DEVELOPMENT BANK GROUP..
Af - Regional Member Countries
rl Ca n Algeria, Angola, Benin, Botswana, Burkina Faso, Burundi, Cabo Verde, Cameroon, Central
African Republic, Chad, Comoros, Congo, Congo Democratic Republic of, Cote d'Ivoire,
Djibouti, Egypt, Equatorial Guinea, Eritrea, Ethiopia, Gabon, Gambia, Ghana, Guinea,
Guinea Bissau, Kenya, Lesotho, Liberia, Libya, Madagascar, Malawi, Mali, Mauritania,

Mauritius, Morocco, Mozambique, Namibia, Niger, Nigeria, Rwanda, Sao Tomé & Principe,

Senegal, Seychelles, Sierra Leone, Somalia, South Africa, South Sudan, Sudan, Swaziland,
a n ro Uu p Tanzania, Togo, Tunisia, Uganda, Zambia, Zimbabwe.

Member Countries Non-regional Member Countries

Argentina, Austria, Belgium, Brazil, Canada, China, Denmark, Finland, France, Germany,
India, Italy, Japan, Korea, Kuwait, Luxembourg, Netherlands, Norway, Portugal, Saudi
Arabia, Spain, Sweden, Switzerland, Turkey, United Arab Emirates (member of the ADF only),
United Kingdom, United States of America.

 

Classification of Regional Member Countries by Resources Entity

@ avs
Countries Eligible for
ADB Resources Only

  
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
  
  
  
  
  
 
  

A 10F
Countries Eligible for

ADF Resources Only*
i bienp
e@ Countries Eligible for
a Blend of ADB and
Ve
Cabo Verde ADF Resources
Senegal
Gambia

Djibouti
Guinea-Bissau

Sierra Leone Somalia

jana
Equatorial Guinea

Seychelles
A Comoros

ozambique

Mauritius
car

Note: * Some ADF-only countries may be eligible to access the
ADB sovereign entity on a case-by-case basis in line with
the policy on “Diversifying the Bank's Products” approved
in 2014 to provide ADF-only eligible countries access to the
ADB sovereign entity.

Source: AfDB.Table of
Contents

Acknowledgments

The Annual Report 2017 was prepared by the
Macroeconomic Policy, Forecasting, and Research
Department of the Vice Presidency for Economic
Governance and Knowledge Management Complex.
The Boards’ Committee on External Communications
and Preparation of the Annual Meetings (ECAM)
provided overall guidance.

Report Team:
O. A. Salami (Task Team Leader);
V. Ancharaz, A. Portella, and R. Boadi

Editing and Translation:
B. Lo and F. Durand-Kouassi (French Translators),
and E.W. Goro (English Editor)

Finance Team:
O. J. Onyango, J. Chaphxanya and H. Ben Othman

Design and Photographs:
G. Gnabro, J. Kabasele, D.F. Nando
and L. Yattien-Amiguet

The Report Team would also like to thank the Senior
Management Coordinating Committee for its guidance
and all complexes that contributed to the Report.

Message from
the President

Accelerating
Transformation

Strengthening
Corporate
Management

Financial Highlights
and Abridged
Financial Statements

 

Quick Facts

Bank Group
Operations through
a High 5 Lens

Highlights of the
Boards’ Oversight
Function

Appendicesiv

Message from
the President

 

2017 was a good year for Africa. Demonstrating its resilience to
climate change, regional shocks, and the global economic headwinds, Africa grew at 3.7 percent, up from 2.3 percent in 2016. That
growth was higher than expected, especially for non-resource-rich
economies, and it is forecast to rise further to 3.8 percent in 2018.

The year was also momentous for the Bank. We consolidated the
reforms initiated in 2016 and delivered on our promise to take the
Bank closer to its clients. By the end of 2017, three of the five
regional hubs were fully operational; a total of 121 staff members
were relocated to the regions; and a dynamic team of 30 country
managers was on board. We also approved the opening of three
new country offices - in Benin, Guinea and Niger. The Bank in
2017 was rated as one of the most transparent, efficient and fit-forpurpose multilateral banks in the world.

The Bank Group delivered valuable support to its Regional Member
Countries (RMCs), including countries in fragile situations and in
humanitarian crisis, and we paid particular attention to women and
youth in our operations. We also advanced the continent's transition
towards green growth and climate resilience, including in the most
vulnerable regions. The Bank Group’s approvals are expected to
deliver significant outcomes in the future — just like the development
impacts from projects completed in 2017. For example, 8.5 million
people were provided with improved agricultural technologies;
210,000 owner-operators and small to medium sized businesses
benefited from better access to financial services; and 8.3 million
people had better access to water and sanitation.

Total disbursements in 2017 peaked at UA 5.43 billion, exceeding
the year’s target. In addition to improved portfolio management
and enhanced dialogue with RMCs through our progress on
decentralization, this achievement reflected a 56 percent increase
in disbursements for non-sovereign operations (NSOs). A clear
sign of the Bank Group’s increasing engagement with Africa’s
private sector, NSOs accounted for 38 percent of ADB approvals,
the highest share on record. The Bank Group also mobilized

Annual Report 2017

significant amounts of co-financing during the year, including UA
4.23 billion to the benefit of private sector operations.

Despite the challenging business environment in 2017, the Bank
preserved its AAA rating, reinforcing its reputation as Africa’s
premier financial institution. This performance was underpinned by
sound financial and risk management, excellent liquidity, and
strong shareholder support. Thanks to its robust financial position,
the Bank succeeded in mobilizing USD 9.73 billion from the capital
market by leveraging its current balance sheet. This included two
of the largest bond issues in the Bank’s history - a USD 2.5 billion
three-year global benchmark, followed by a USD 2 billion five-year
transaction.

The Bank Group also continued to grow its income. Net operating
income increased in 2017 to UA 567.84 million, up from UA 438.25
million in 2016, a 29.6 percent increase and the highest since 2009.
During 2017, the Bank also consolidated its position as Africa’s
leading knowledge institution by taking full leadership responsibility
for the publication of a key flagship — the African Economic Outlook.
This is fitting testimony to the Bank’s growing capacity to produce
and disseminate impactful knowledge that informs its own
operations, builds the institutional capacity of its RMCs, and
influences policymaking on the ground. Examples in this area
abound. The Bank-generated projections of investment needs for
the infrastructure sector will guide the High 5 objective of achieving
universal access to energy by 2025. The Bank also helped the
governments of Mozambique and Tanzania in designing and
operationalizing national gas domestication strategies. It also
provided policy advice to Tanzania on setting up an environment
conducive to foreign direct investment in the gas sector. Case
studies produced on other RMCs will guide land reform and the
development of fish-farming value chains.

Let me express my sincere gratitude to our Boards of Directors,
Management, and staff for their unflinching support during the
trying times of 2017. As we look forward to accelerated delivery in
2018, | trust that | can count on your continuing support to
transform Africa and African lives through the High 5s.

  

Akinwumi Ayodeji Adesina
President of the African Development Bank Group
Chairperson of the Boards of DirectorsStanding, from left to right:

René Obam-Nlong; Dominique Lebastard; Hiromi Ozawa; Heinrich Gaomab II;

Domenico Fanizza; Calleb Weggoro; Mmakgoshi Lekhethe; David Stevenson;
Karin Isaksson; Moussa Dosso; Steven Dowd; Tarik Al-Tushani.

Seating, from left to right:

Bright Okogu; Abdelmajid Mellouki; Catherine Cudre-Mauroux; Samy Zaghloul;

President Akinwumi Adesina; Soraya Mellali; Kwabena Oku-Afari;

Martine Mabiala; Patrick Zimpita.

Letter of Transmittal

In accordance with Article 32 of the Agreement establishing the
African Development Bank and Articles 8, 11, and 12 of the General
Regulations adopted thereunder, and pursuant to Article 26 of the
Agreement establishing the African Development Fund and Articles
8, 11, and 12 of the General Regulations adopted thereunder, the
Boards of Directors of the Bank and of the Fund, hereby submit to
the Boards of Governors the Annual Report of the African
Development Bank and the African Development Fund for the
financial year ended 31 December 2017.

The Annual Report includes a review of developments in the
operational activities of the Bank Group during 2017. The full set of
audited financial statements of the Bank and the special purpose
financial statements of the Fund, together with the approved
administrative budget for 2018 are contained in the electronic
version of the Financial Report available on the Bank Group’s web
page at www.afdb.org/annualreport.

Annual Report 2017

Vvvi

As Africa’s premier development financial institution and the
only multilateral development bank whose sole mandate is
the development of Africa, the African Development Bank is
uniquely placed to boost Africa’s development. Underpinned
by sound financial and risk management policies, excellent
liquidity, and strong shareholder support, the African
Development Bank has maintained its AAA rating, with a stable
outlook, by all four global rating agencies.

Rael
We Nia tr)
eee MTC
people with access
COM (H ce (HAA

Feed Africa brought
8.5 million Africans
access to improved
agricultural
technologies.

 

Annual Report 2017

The Bank continued to implement its High 5 agenda and to
deliver strong results on the ground. Through its sovereign
and non-sovereign windows, the Bank is financing projects
and programs that create jobs, support small and medium
enterprises and deliver inclusive growth.

Some highlights for 2017, the year under review:

ET
ETH

14 percent in 2015
74 percent in
2016, 2017

100 percent

2015 2016 2017

1,400 MW of power
3.8 million peopleIntegrate Africa
provided 14 million
Africans with improved
access to transport.

 

Capital

as of 31 December 2017

NTR) WET NR

UT) UT td

  

bition. @ sition etus
Ruy

The Bank continued to strengthen, customize, and align its
knowledge products to its High 5 priority areas while providing
more policy-relevant analytical and advisory support and
capacity building to Regional Member Countries (RMCs).

Thanks to its sound financial profile, the Bank raised capital
in major international financial markets at competitive rates. In
March 2017, the Bank successfully issued a three-year global
benchmark. The transaction was its largest benchmark ever,
and represents a clear step-up in its issuing profile, positioning
it within the restricted group of issuers of large, liquid global
benchmark transactions.

Total Bank Group approvals (excluding all Special Resources)
reached UA 5.46 billion in 2017. With the inclusion of approvals
from the Transition Support Facility (TSF), Private Sector Credit
Enhancement Facility (PSF), and other special funds, the total
approvals were UA 6.20 billion. The disbursement volume for the
year was UA 5.43 billion, the highest ever overall in the history
of the institution.

The Bank Group’s net operating income increased by 29.6 percent
from UA 438.25 million in 2016 to UA 567.84 million in 2017.

The Bank Group delivered value for money. The Multilateral
Organization Performance Assessment Network assessed the
Bank and other global and multilateral finance and development
institutions, and found that the Bank was “fit for purpose.”

Among all Multilateral Development Banks, the Bank Group has:

+ The lowest administrative-cost-to-adjustedcommon-equity ratio.

+ The lowest administrative cost to adjusted common equity.

+ The lowest staff cost per million dollars of lending.

+ One of the lowest cost-to-income ratios.

Annual Report 2017

vii: Vel ey

CUMS ELUOL

 

The global economy recovered in 2017, with world output growing
by 3.8 percent, up from 3.2 percent in 2016 and higher than the
recent peak of 3.6 percent in 2014. But the year also revealed risks,

Annual Report 2017

Xina solar power plant, Northern Cape Province, South Africa

which are likely to persist in the near term. Protectionist sentiments
resurged; financial conditions tightened with the rise in the U.S.
benchmark interest rate; and the recovery in commodity prices
remains fragile. In the absence of mitigating policies, these risks
could hurt Africa’s future growth through the usual channels of trade
and capital flows, aid, and remittances. On the whole, however,
economic prospects are brighter as the global recovery since 2016
continues to strengthen.

Africa’s growth rebounded to 3.7 percent in 2017, up from 2.3 percent
in 2016, and is forecast to rise further to 3.8 percent in 2018. Growthin 2017 was fostered by a recovery in commodity prices, improved
agricultural production, sustained domestic demand, and better
macroeconomic management. Of 54 countries, 29 posted growth of
3.7 percent or higher, with at least 10 growing at 6 percent or more.
Very few countries experienced a deceleration in 2017. Despite
the improved economic performance, however, most African
economies are operating far below their full growth potential, and
the growth level needed to achieve most of the targets set in the
Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs). On current trends, they
would actually miss the opportunity to eliminate poverty, hunger,
and other forms of human deprivation on the continent by 2030.

The positive economic record in Africa in 2017 masks other deepseated issues. Although fiscal and current account positions
improved on average, they remain a source of concern, especially
among the commodity-exporting economies, which were slow to
adjust to changing macroeconomic conditions. Several of these
countries saw a hike in inflation, with the average rate for Africa
climbing to 12.7 percent in 2017. Similarly, while the risk of debt
distress remains low or moderate for more than 60 percent of
Africa’s economies, some countries have accumulated very high
levels of debt, raising concerns about their debt sustainability.’

Structural change on the continent has also been slow, with a
slow pace of diversification from extractives, or of labor shifting
to higher-productivity sectors. In several of the fastest-growing
economies, challenges of unemployment and inclusive growth
persist, with job creation growth only half that of output growth.
In the face of rapidly growing populations and heightened risks
of social unrest, jobless growth remains a serious concern for
African policymakers.

African countries must fast-track structural transformation to
create more jobs and reduce poverty. This calls for massive
investment - in the order of 40 percent of GDP, if not more - in
sectors with strong potential for growth and job creation. African
economies must also step up efforts to mobilize resources
domestically through savings and taxes. Given the massive
funding requirements for African infrastructure, however, external
finance will remain critical. Without scaled-up investment in
Africa’s future, the world will not achieve the SDGs by 2030.

Africa has good potential to turn opportunities in its favor.
With its abundant natural resources and youthful population,
alongside better macroeconomic management and improving
global economic conditions, Africa is poised for economic
transformation. Some positive signs are already emerging. African
countries are integrating into global value chains and catching
up with the digital revolution. Rapid urbanization is turning
cities into growth poles. Economic diversification is spreading
out, based on agro-industrial activity, the blue economy, and
information technology-enabled services. The launch of the
Continental Free Trade Area in March 2018 is expected to boost
intra-African trade. And Africa’s emerging middle class can drive

Accelerating Transformation | 4

future growth.

The African Development Bank, Africa’s premier financial institution,
with deep knowledge of, and proximity to its Regional Member
Countries (RMCs), is ideally placed to act as a partner of choice in
their quest for inclusive economic development. In 2017, the Bank
Group continued to decisively implement its Ten-Year Strategy
(2013-22) and the High 5 priorities while continuously reforming itself
to deliver more effectively. Its infrastructure investments across the
continent are laying the foundations for sustained growth, creating
opportunities for millions of Africans, including women and youth,
and ultimately helping to improve their quality of life. The Bank Group
is also investing massively in agriculture as an industry, promoting
industrial development by facilitating access to finance for small and
medium enterprises, and supporting regional integration through
cross-border roads, transport corridors, transnational railways, and
regional power pools. Not least, the Bank’s knowledge work and
partnerships continue to support sound policymaking in Africa.

Delivering at a time of ongoing reform

The year 2017 marks the second full year of implementing the
Development and Business Delivery Model (DBDM). During the
year, the Bank embarked on a comprehensive organizational
restructuring: internal processes were revamped or redesigned to
increase efficiency, and an updated decentralization plan was rolled
out to take the Bank closer to its clients for greater effectiveness.
With the key strategies in place and institutional restructuring under
way, the year was about accelerating transformation and delivering
on lending and non-lending programs.

The Bank made good progress in several areas. First, the Bank
continued to deliver on core financing, disbursements, operational
strategies, and portfolio management objectives. The total Bank
Group approvals in 2017 (excluding all Special Resources) reached
UA 5.46 billion. With the inclusion of approvals from the Transition
Support Facility (TSF), the Private Sector Credit Enhancement
Facility (PSF), and other special funds, the total approvals were
UA 6.20 billion.

Second, the Bank stepped up its resource mobilization efforts
through co-financing with the objective of crowding in additional
financing for the implementation of the High 5s. The Bank’s approved
operations generated a combined UA 7.65 billion on both its public
and private sector operations in additional co-financing investments
from partners such as the World Bank, European Union, European
Investment Bank, and Agence Francaise de Développement (AFD).

Third, disbursements, on a positive trend since 2015 reached a new
record level in 2017. This reflected, in part, the reforms of recent
years, which have reduced processing delays — and decentralization,
which has enhanced dialogue with RMC governments and enabled
systematic follow-up by regional and country offices. The bulk of

Annual Report 20171 | Accelerating Transformation

the disbursements were for project loans, including private sector
operations.

Fourth, the Bank Group designed and adopted new policies in
pursuit of the High 5s. During 2017, the Board approved the ResultsBased Financing Policy as its third sovereign lending instrument
- alongside investment lending and program-based operations
(PBOs). The policy will support government-owned programs by
linking disbursements directly to the achievement of program results,
thus sharpening the institutional focus on results and enhancing
development effectiveness. The Bank Group also adopted the Policy
on the Prevention of Illicit Financial Flows (IFFs) and endorsed an
action plan to strengthen its internal anti-IFF practices and enhance
its collaboration with regional bodies in this regard.

Fifth, the Bank Group successfully mobilized important volumes of
resources for Africa. In 2017, UA 6.85 billion (equal to 99 percent of
the approved borrowing program) were raised on the international
capital market by leveraging the Bank’s balance sheet. This included
two of the Bank’s largest-ever bond issues yet - a USD 2.5 billion
three-year global benchmark, followed by a USD 2 billion five-year
transaction, the largest in this maturity range.

Additionally, operations approved during the year generated UA 7.65
billion in co-financing from the Bank’s traditional and new partners.
Significantly, UA 4.23 billion were leveraged as co-financing for
private sector operations. Among other agreements, one signed with
the EU in 2017 will bring EUR 2.2 billion for the EU-Africa Investment
Platform, and USD 6 billion were mobilized for the Japan-Africa
Energy Initiative.

Sixth, the Bank revamped its non-lending activities, produced several
impactful knowledge products, and stepped up its advisory role to
RMCs. All economic flagship reports were published as planned.
Confirming the quality of the Bank’s knowledge products, RePEc
(Research Papers in Economics), a reputable global depository
of economic knowledge, ranked the Bank 7th among almost 300
Africa-based economic and development research institutions in
2017, up from 28th, three years earlier. In the same vein, the impact
factor of the flagship African Development Review improved to 1 in
2017, up from 0.724 three years earlier. For the first time, the African
Economic Outlook was prepared entirely by Bank staff members
and completed in 2017 for an early launch in January 2018 following
Management's decision to bring forward its publication date.

Finally, the Bank Group’s operations continued to deliver important
development impacts in Africa in each of the High 5 priority areas.
Power generation projects approved in 2017 will install 1,400 MW of
new renewable energy capacity once completed. Thanks to Light Up
and Power Africa, 4.4 million people were provided with electricity.
Feed Africa provided 8.5 million people (half of them women) with
improved agricultural technologies. Advancing the Industrialize
Africa priority, 210,000 owner-operators and small businesses
benefited from access to financial services. Projects in the Integrate
Africa priority eased access to transport for 14 million people. Last,

Annual Report 2017

Total Bank Group approvals in 2017

UA 6.20 billion

UA 734.3
| million
Transition
UA 5.46 Support Facility
ali (TSF), Private
billion Sector Credit
Total Bank Enhancement
Group approvals Facility (PSF),
excluding all and other

Special Resources special funds

The Bank Group net
operating income

UN ar

Cy

 

2016 2017

the Bank Group helped the Improve the Quality of Life for the People
of Africa priority by providing better access to water and sanitation
to 8.3 million people and supporting some 1.5 million direct jobs.

Bank efficiency indicators improved markedly in 2017. Despite
operating in a challenging context, the Bank maintained a very
strong financial profile, as reflected in its capital adequacy, funding,
and liquidity. Prudent financial and risk management policies have
mitigated risks while ensuring sound capitalization and strong
liquidity levels. The net operating income of the Bank Group, which
had declined between 2014 and 2015, has turned around rapidly.
The Bank Group’s net operating income rose from UA 438.25
million in 2016 to UA 567.84 million in 2017, a 29.6 percent increase
and highest since 2009. And 90 percent of the allocable income of
the Bank, apart from reserves, has gone into support for low-income
ADF countries.Looking ahead

Despite the achievements in 2017, several challenges remain,
which are being addressed as the Bank moves forward.
Improvements in disbursement volumes, overall portfolio
performance, project cycle and procurement processes still require
close monitoring. The average lapse of time from approval to
effectiveness for first disbursement and from approval to first
disbursement needs to be reduced at a faster pace. To further
improve portfolio performance and efficiency in project cycle
processes, the Bank is implementing a phased approach. Based on
an in-depth review of a sample of slow disbursing operations,
lessons from evaluation reports are being incorporated in the
design of future operations. Time-bound action plans have been
developed to address the implementation challenges for each
project, leveraging on the enhanced country and regional presence
of the Bank. This focus on portfolio performance will be streamlined
throughout all sovereign operations, strengthening quality-at-entry,
enhancing project supervision, and canceling non-performing
operations much more quickly.

ational values and culture

 

Figure 1.1. Orga

Accelerating Transformation | 1

Under decentralization, senior managers in regional and country
offices have been empowered to be decision makers. Principles
underscoring faster decision making, greater transparency, and
stronger performance have been instilled in the Bank’s new culture
to drive organizational effectiveness (Figure 1.1). Other reforms
to strengthen the Bank’s execution capability and expedite loan
approval and disbursement are at advanced stages. With the
institutional reforms solidly anchored, the Bank’s focus has shifted
to accelerating delivery and enhancing developmental impacts.
The cascading of performance targets to regional, sectoral, and
managerial levels for enhanced accountability for delivery is well
under way. In addition, efforts are being stepped up to deploy
innovative financial solutions to address financing gaps in RMCs.

The Bank is striving to manage its human resources even more costeffectively: rather than hiring staff simply to meet gross vacancy
numbers, it has given priority to recruitment for critical positions to
deliver development results at scale. It will continue to improve its
human resource management practices to ensure a shift to a culture
of performance and results while accelerating the recruitment and
retention of staff for the skills required to implement the High 5s.

 

CG

(rata)

Quest for the highest
level of performances
BUC MUU
Ua a
skills and business =
practices

 

&
Gr Ua
os?

Annual Report 2017Bank Gro

 

The Bank Group continued in 2017 to implement the High 5
priorities alongside the Ten-Year Strategy through lending and nonlending activities. The latter included Economic and Sector Work,
knowledge products and services, new policies and strategies, and
new initiatives and partnerships along with deepening existing ones.
Approvals were aligned with the High 5s. Gender was mainstreamed
into operations and policies to ensure that the Bank Group’s work

Annual Report 2017

Plant operator at Menengai Geothermal Project, Kenya

delivers significant impacts for women. Additionaly, countries in
fragile situations received special attention. The Bank Group also
remained sensitive to Regional Member Countries (RMCs) adjusting
to the collapse of commodity prices and to the humanitarian crisis
in the Horn of Africa. It continued to mainstream climate change and
green growth concerns into the High 5s and helped a number of
countries adapt to climate change.Approvals

Bank Group approvals for 2017 amounted to UA 6.20 billion across
249 operations (Figure 2.1).' The Improve the Quality of Life priority
continued to absorb the biggest share of approvals, at UA 2.83
billion (45.7 percent of total approvals) in 2017. Approvals for Light
Up and Power Africa amounted to UA 1.23 billion (20 percent). The
Industrialize Africa priority took UA 855.4 million of Bank Group
financing (13.8 percent), followed closely by the Feed Africa priority
(UA 849.6 million, or 13.7 percent). Finally, approvals for Integrate
Africa reached UA 431.5 million (7 percent).

Total approvals were UA 2.16 billion lower than the historic 2016
achievement of UA 7.62 billion (excluding all Special Resources).
The decline in approval levels reflected in Figure 2.1 was due to
several factors: 2016 was a special year, as the Bank stepped up
its efforts to provide counter-cyclical financial support through large
program-based operations (PBOs) to RMCs hit by the collapse in
commodity prices that began in 2013 and continued through 2016.
With the recovery in commodity prices and improved macroeconomic
prospects in natural resource-rich economies, Bank Management
self-imposed a 15 percent cap on PBOs to lending operations and
shifted lending toward investment projects. In addition, lending
volumes were carefully monitored and adjusted to ensure that there is
no breach of the Bank’s prudential ratios and threat to its credit rating.

1 This includes approvals across the Bank Group's three entities - the African
Development Bank (ADB), the African Development Fund (ADF), and the
Nigerian Trust Fund (NTF) - totaling UA 5.46 billion as well as approvals under
the Private Sector Credit Enhancement Facility (PSF), the Transition Support
Facility (TSF), and the Special Funds amounting to UA 734 million.

Figure 2.1

Bank Group Operations through a High 5 Lens | 2

Disbursements

Total disbursements stood at UA 5.43 billion in 2017, a 15 percent
increase over 2016 and the highest on record for the Bank
Group (Figure 2.2). This improved performance is due in part to
decentralization, which has helped deepen engagement with RMCs
and speed up project implementation and monitoring - including
that for slow-disbursing projects now subject to faster cancellations.

The increase in disbursements in 2017 was driven, to a large extent,
by the 42 percent increase in project loan and grant disbursements,
in part reflecting improved portfolio management. Among them were
some notable private sector disbursements — such as for the First
Bank of Nigeria (UA 150 million) and South Africa’s Eskom II (UA
122 million). At UA 1.16 billion, disbursements for non-sovereign
operations were 56 percent higher than in 2016, and 16 percent
over the target for 2017. Confirming the increased disbursements on
non-sovereign operations, the disbursement ratio on this financing
window reached 64 percent in 2017, well above the target for the
year (50 percent).

Also contributing to the rise in total disbursements were
disbursements on lines of credit, which increased by 29 percent
to UA 719 million in 2017. On the other hand, disbursements on
policy-based loans fell by 11.2 percent relative to 2016. While the
disbursement volume on the ADB Public Sector was roughly on
target, the disbursement ratio (16.3 percent) fell short of its target of
23 percent. For the ADF entity, the disbursement ratio (21.4 percent)
was higher than the target (18 percent).

Bank Group approvals by High 5 priority, 2015 - 2017 (UA millions)

 

4000
3000
2000 1,230
850 855
1000 t
0 J ]
Light Up and Feed Africa Industrialize
Power Africa Africa

2,829

432

Integrate
Africa

Improve the Quality of
Life for the People
of Africa

Annual Report 20172 Bank Group Operations through a High 5 Lens

Figure 2.2 Bank Group disbursements,

2013 - 2017 (UA millions)

 

15%
oad
a * 5,426
5,000 4,721
4,000
3,193 3,202 3.984
3,000
2,000
1,000
0
2013 2014 2015 2016 2017

Bank Group’s portfolio

The Bank Group’s active portfolio on 31 December 2017 stood at UA
36.49 billion. Most of the portfolio shows satisfactory performance
while the rest are either under close watch or require Management
attention. Delays in project implementation were a key factor
explaining flagged operations. They arose from delays in approval
by the borrowing countries’ parliaments; delays in obtaining
counterpart contributions to the projects; lack of capacity among
implementing agencies; and delays related to project readiness.

 

Angola’s Lauca hydropower dam

Annual Report 2017

Light Up and Power Africa

In 2017, the Bank Group dedicated much effort to executing the
New Deal on Energy for Africa - the Bank Group’s strategy to Light
Up and Power Africa - and key related initiatives, such as the Offgrid Revolution or Desert-to-Power. It also approved implementation
arrangements for the Facility for Energy Inclusion through two
dedicated funds (for on-grid and off-grid access) to close funding
gaps in the small-scale energy infrastructure sector and catalyze
growth in last-mile energy access solutions.

Total approvals for Light Up and Power Africa amounted to UA 1.23
billion in 2017. The share of infrastructure investment increased to 91
percent, from 47 percent the year before. The Bank Group mobilized
UA 3.52 billion in external co-financing, and private sector lending
was up 40 percent to UA 290 million. Significantly, 100 percent of
the Bank Group’s approvals in the power generation sector were
for renewable energy projects, such as Cameroon’s 420 MW
hydropower plant (Box 2.1). Multinational operations also made up a
fair share of approvals for Light Up and Power Africa. These included
a UA 300 million power interconnection project to construct a 714
km transmission line between Guinea and Mali. As part of the West
African Power Pool, the transmission line will connect to other lines
currently under construction in the sub-region, thus advancing the
region’s integration. The Bank Group invested UA 60 million through
the African Development Fund (ADF) and mobilized UA 25 million
from the EU-Africa Investment Facility.

The year 2017 saw five major energy projects completed — in Angola,
Burkina Faso, Morocco, Senegal, and Zimbabwe. In Zimbabwe, a
USD 35.3 million grant for refurbishing the ash plant at Hwange Coal
Power Station and rehabilitating its sub-transmission and distribution
facilities boosted electricity production by 717 gigawatt-hours
(GWh). Reliable power supply for water pumps and treatment plants
has reduced the risk of cholera and other waterborne diseases.

UA 1.23
billion

Up and Power
Africa in 2017

cs
| ©)
ca

40%

increase in
private sector
lendingBox 2.1

Cameroon

Cameroon’s
iN Celgey Lyne ET t

The Nachtigal project is a 420-megawatt runof-river hydropower plant in the south of
Cameroon with a projected annual output of
more than 2,800 gigawatt hours. Energy of
Cameroon - the national utility — will be the offtaker under a 35-year power purchase
agreement, purchasing electricity at the set
price of 6 cents per kilowatt hour.

The project will increase the country’s installed
capacity by more than 30 percent. The use of
hydropower, the most cost-effective and the
cleanest source of energy for Cameroon, will
save an estimated 1.35 million tons equivalent
of greenhouse gas emissions a year. By providing clean and reliable power at a competitive
tariff, the project will help support industrial
expansion, job creation, and economic growth,
benefiting especially the local community.

 

In a significant non-lending activity, the Bank, in collaboration with the
UN Environment Program, launched the Atlas of Africa Energy
Resources at the World Economic Forum in Durban, South Africa, in
May 2017. Featuring 64 maps, 73 satellite images, and hundreds of
photos, the atlas offers an authoritative guide to Africa’s energy sector.

The Bank Group implemented a range of activities under the Feed
Africa flagship programs, launching new initiatives and approving
50 Feed Africa priority operations in 2017.

In November 2017, the Board approved the Technologies for African
Agricultural Transformation (TAAT) - a major initiative to boost
agricultural productivity in Africa by delivering proven technologies
on a massive scale to farmers. TAAT is committed to mobilizing an
estimated USD 1 billion through strategic partnerships. The Bank
Group will invest a total of USD 404 million through this flagship,
including USD 248 million in country programs across 18 RMCs,
with nine high-yield commodities prioritized.

Bank Group Operations through a High 5 Lens | 2

 

Fruits and vegetables market, Nairobi, Kenya

TAAT will work with African Women in Agricultural Research and
Development (AWARD) to reach out to the women who make up
more than half of African farmers. By 2025, interventions under
TAAT are expected to create 3 million direct farm jobs, raise farm
household income by USD 600 a year, and help lift 40 million people
out of poverty.

UA 850
million
devoted to Feed
Africa in 2017

Technologies for
African Agricultural
Transformation (TAAT)
and four other
flagships launched

Increased awareness

to agricultural
resiliencebuilding against

climate change

Under the ENABLE Youth Program, capacity-building and advocacy
events were organized to empower young “agripreneurs.” These
included the first African Youth Agripreneur Forum (AYAF) in Ibadan,
Nigeria, which attracted over 250 delegates from 30 countries. The

Annual Report 2017 82| Bank Group Operations through a High 5 Lens

Forum included an AgriPitch Challenge for 20 agripreneurs, a twoday coaching and training boot camp on business development.
Subsequently, nine agripreneurs from eight countries received
small and medium enterprise (SME) training by the Korean Institute
for Development Strategy in Seoul, Korea, drawing on Korea's
successful experience in promoting SMEs. In another event, the
Brazil Africa Institute shared best practices from Brazil's cassava
value chain with 28 agripreneurs from 14 African countries
during a two-month training course in Brazil. ENABLE Youth side
events were also held at the Bank’s Annual Meetings in India, at
the African Green Revolution Forum in Abidjan, and at the World
Food Prize Ceremony in lowa, with agripreneurs participating
in all these events. Many agripreneurs received practical training
on agribusiness development, were exposed to emerging and
cutting-edge innovations in the agriculture sector, participated in
high-level forums, and interacted with leading personalities in the
sector. In brief, the events opened up a world of opportunities
for the agripreneurs. The AYAF and AgriPitch have now been
established as key annual events for stakeholders in the agripreneur
space on the continent. This advocacy of agripreneurship is also
creating demand for investments by RMCs, and in 2017 ENABLE
Youth expanded to eight new countries with projects and project
preparation financing, bringing total approvals under the program to
about USD 300 million.

Approvals for the Feed Africa priority amounted to UA 849.6
million in 2017, representing a bigger share of total Bank Group

“I’ve been here since 1992. Half of the
young people have left on the risky
adventure to get to Spain by boat.
Others went to Dakar or Mauritania.
With the arrival of the Lake Guiers
Office, water has become accessible.
We acquired motorized water pumps
and dug ditches to irrigate our land.
Before the project, we planted 50
hectares in our zone per year. Today we
are at 2,000 hectares. The car you see
there, | bought it for 4 million CFA francs
thanks to my potato harvest last year.
If | can make more than 4 million CFA
francs, it’s because | have better yields
thanks to the dredging of the lake.”

Annual Report 2017

Box 2.2

Rehabilitating the

Mozambique

Massingir Dam to support r]
ENaC ew
Wy zT yee)

The project, approved in 2007, aimed at
rehabilitating the 30-year-old Massingir Dam
and enhancing smallholder farmer productivity
in a range of food and cash crops through
improved downstream irrigation and drainage
infrastructure.

Commissioned in 2017, the project has restored
the dam’s full operating capacity (2,480 cubic
meters), installed a new pump station, and built
22 km of main canal and 60 km of secondary
ducts. As a result, the area under irrigation has
doubled to 40,000 hectares, and is projected to
increase further to 90,000 hectares. Alongside
improved irrigation, disseminating an array
of agricultural technologies (including better
varieties of rice and vegetables, integrated
pest management, and training for smallholder
farmers) has caused the average area under
cultivation, and the agricultural yields, to
increase by at least 50 percent. According to
estimates, farmers’ net income has gone up
from the baseline average of MZN 15,000 (in
2007) to MZN 35,000 (in 2016) and is expected to
reach MZN 40,000 as the project’s full potential
is realized in coming years.

 

approvals (13.7 percent, up from 10.8 percent in 2016). The Bank
Group’s focus was on promoting agriculture as a business, with
key approvals in agricultural value chain development for Angola,
Ghana, and Uganda, crop-specific projects in Guinea-Bissau
(rice) and Nigeria (potato), and agro-industrial poles - coordinated
multisector investments supporting industrialization - in Cote
d'Ivoire. Gabon’s GRAINE support program (UA 81.6 million), a
fitting example of public-private partnership in agriculture, will allow
the country to diversify its economy from petroleum while improving
food security. It will directly affect some 140 farmer cooperatives. A
recently completed project in Mozambique shows the potent role
that agricultural development can play in reducing poverty among
smallholder farmers (Box 2.2).Consistent with the Bank’s green initiative, agricultural resiliencebuilding in the face of climate change received a high priority in
2017, with such projects as irrigation-water saving in Morocco,
drought resilience and sustainable livelihoods in Eritrea, and climateresilient livestock management in Zambia. Other approvals were for
famine-related humanitarian assistance.

In 2017, the Bank Group launched four other Feed Africa flagships:

* The Transformation of African Savannah Initiative (TASI) is
the Bank’s response to Africa’s rising food imports by bringing
under cultivation some 2 million hectares of savannah over the
next eight years. This will be achieved through the use of cuttingedge technologies for maize, soybean, and livestock, commercial
farming skills, and long-term blended finance to support farmers.
A TASI pilot in Ghana was launched in November 2017.

+ The Post-Harvest Losses and Agro-Processing program
seeks to increase the efficiency of post-harvest systems by
strengthening policies, institutions, and rural infrastructure and
by supporting technology and market development to reduce
post-harvest losses. The program will be mainstreamed into all
agricultural value chains.

* The Leadership for Agriculture platform assembles
policymakers, technical experts, private sector actors, and
community champions for dialogue, advocacy, and policy
formulation to pursue Africa’s agricultural transformation.
Launched by the Bank and the Initiative for Global Development
Abidjan in November 2017, the platform also has the financial
support of the Rockefeller Foundation.

* The Say No to Famine framework was adopted in May 2017
to respond with leadership and agility to the humanitarian
crisis caused by prolonged drought in several RMCs. The Bank
Group swiftly approved grants for Somalia (UA 25 million) and
South Sudan (UA 31.5 million) as part of a Short-Term Regional
Emergency Response Project, which is expected to benefit more
than 1 million people facing famine and malnutrition. The Bank
Group intends to invest about USD 1.1 billion in a coordinated
response under this framework.

Industrialize Africa

The Industrial and Trade Development Department, which began
operating in 2017, will champion the Industrialize Africa priority while
implementing the Bank Group’s trade agenda.

Approvals for Industrialize Africa in 2017 were UA 855.4 million.
Most approvals (82.7 percent) were for financial sector operations
to support credit to the private sector. The Bank approved UA
332.4 million for the African Export-Import Bank to support its trade
finance activities.

Bank Group Operations through a High 5 Lens | 2

UA 855
million

to Industrialize
Africa

c
y > Major approvals
to support

credit to the
private sector

Among other operations,

Bank financing will

help Guinea increase its

bauxite production by @

12 million ¢

tons annually

C9)

Three private sector projects targeted industrial development
directly: loans to the National Industrial and Mining Company of
Mauritania (USD 50 million), to Morocco’s TEKCIM Cement (EUR
50 million), and to the Boké project in Guinea (USD 100 million;
Box 2.3). Several sovereign operations approved in 2017 also had
industrialization components, including policy support to create an
enabling environment, promote good governance, and mobilize
public sector resources for industrial development. In Madagascar,
for example, a competitiveness support program involving
adoption of a national public-private partnership strategy and the
establishment of special economic zones is expected to boost
public and private investments, increase value addition, and create
some 100,000 jobs during the program’s three-year implementation.

Industrialization presents significant potential for creating jobs,
boosting economic growth, and ultimately improving the quality
of life for people of Africa, as in the Bank-financed Derba Midroc
Cement Plant in Ethiopia, completed in 2017 (Box 2.4).

Among other initiatives, the Bank partnered with the United Nations
Industrial Development Organization to support African countries
in developing sound industrial policies. Ethiopia and Senegal were
among the first beneficiaries.

Annual Report 2017

102| Bank Group Operations through a High 5 Lens

11

Box 2.3

Boosting bauxite
HH CCUM Uy
Boké region of
Northwestern Guinea

The Bank is co-financing the development of
an integrated bauxite-mining and transport
infrastructure operation by the Guinea Alumina
Corporation. The Bank provided USD 100 million
in senior debt alongside other co-financiers
to the USD 1.4 billion project, sponsored by
Emirates Global Aluminum.

Guinea has the world’s largest reserves of
bauxite, the main ore used in manufacturing
aluminum. The project will contribute to the
transformation of Guinea into a leading world
producer and exporter of bauxite and aluminum
while contributing to the development of core
transport infrastructure. An upgrade to the rail
system linking the Boké region to the Port of
Kamsar will transport bauxite, general cargo,
and passengers.

The facility will have an annual production
capacity of 12 million tons of bauxite. The
construction phase is expected to employ
3,500 workers, 2,500 of them Guineans. Once
in operation in 2019, the project will employ
some 350 staff and 400 contractors. The largest
greenfield investment project in Guinea for four
decades, the project will contribute an estimated
10 percent of gross domestic product and boost
government revenue, exports, and employment.

Aerial view of the Boké mining project,
under construction

Annual Report 2017

Box 2.4

SUM em lela
Meee
project in Ethiopia

The 1.7 million tons of cement produced in
Ethiopia in 2015 was insufficient to meet
the booming construction sector’s demand.
To increase capacity, the Bank approved a
USD 55 million long-term senior loan for the
Derba Midroc Cement Plant. It also acted as
lead in arranging financing for the project,
mobilizing investment from lenders such as
the Development Bank of Ethiopia and other
Ethiopian institutions.

The coming into operation of the plant in 2017
precipitated a 70 percent fall in the price of
cement in Ethiopia.

The project has created 1,460 jobs directly and
is expected to create more than 1,000 ancillary
jobs. As part of an integrated development
program, 40 percent of the power produced by a
5 MW plant installed at the cement factory goes
to the local community.

Derba Midroc cement plant, Ethiopia

“Before Derba, the construction
industry was suffering. This time,
if we order cement from Derba, we
get it on-site in three or four days.”Integrate Africa

With a new Regional Integration Strategy in preparation, the Bank
Group’s activities under the Integrate Africa priority remain guided
by the current Regional Integration Policy and Strategy 2014-2023.
In 2017, the Bank Group approved major investments in hard and
soft infrastructure to integrate financial and telecommunications
markets, develop roads and bridges, and grow regional value
chains that promote complementary markets. Projects ranged from
technical assistance, to trade facilitation along corridors, and to
multinational road and transport networks.

Approvals for Integrate Africa totaled UA 431.5 million in 2017.
They were concentrated in multinational projects in the transport
and finance sectors; there were no approvals in the (multinational)
communication sector.

Transport (multinational)

Approvals in the multinational transport sector amounted to UA 360.8
million, representing 33.7 percent of total approvals in the transport
sector (UA 1.07 billion). With 312 km of cross-border roads built or
rehabilitated, operations in this sector will help plug gaps in major
transport corridors and enhance linkages between countries. The
Uganda-Kenya corridor and the Eldoret bypass in Kenya, the largest
operation by value (USD 253 million), will boost regional trade in the
East African Community - a region already known for its high level of
intra-bloc trade - and improve the standard of living of millions of

UA 432
million

to Integrate
Africa

312 km

of cross-border
roads built or rehabilitated

Melero erations
in East, West, and
Central Africa

Bank Group Operations through a High 5 Lens | 2

From Tanzania:

“I buy goods and transport them to
Dar-es-Salaam, Tanzania. Before the
road was made, we were using the
Singida or Arusha routes. It took a long
time, almost two or three days. But
now, because this new road is about
to be complete, we take about 12 or 15
hours. Now I’m reaping the benefits of
this road.”

“The road has helped me to deliver
goods much faster to marketplaces
and saved me a lot of expenses from
doing car repairs due to bad conditions
of the older roads.”

people. Other regional road projects include reconstruction of the
Coyah-Farmoreah border road between Guinea and Sierra Leone (UA
38.3 million) and the construction of a bridge over the Logone River
between Yagoua, Cameroon, and Bongor, Chad (UA 54.8 million).

Among multinational transport projects completed in 2017 are two
major transport corridors in East Africa, with links to the northern
and central corridors. This includes construction of 548 km, and
rehabilitation of 320 km, of road along the Mombasa-Nairobi-Addis
Ababa corridor, with a one-stop border-post at Moyale. The project
has spurred economic activity along the corridor and will promote
trade between Ethiopia and Kenya. Public transport has improved,
with regular bus service between Moyale and Nairobi, fares have
gone down 40 percent, and travel time has been reduced from more
than three days to less than a day. A bank and several banking and
money transfer outlets have set up along the route, and six new
hotels and guesthouses have started operations in the Kenyan town
of Marsabit alone. The project generated more than 65,000 personmonths of local employment during construction and is expected to
create thousands of jobs through new economic opportunities.

Annual Report 2017

122 Bank Group Operations through a High 5 Lens

 

One-stop border post (Kenya side) at the
Kenya-Ethiopia border in Moyale

The Bank sees aviation as an accelerator for regional integration
and economic growth. Africa’s aviation industry contributes USD 73
billion to the continent’s GDP and employs some 7 million people,
with considerable unexploited growth potential. In 2017, the Bank
Group approved USD 108.4 million in financing to support Air Cote
d'lvoire’s modernization and fleet expansion while mobilizing an
additional EUR 253 million from the private sector. This investment
will allow Air Cote d'Ivoire to acquire five new aircraft and expand
the number of passengers it serves from 3 million per year today to
8 million by 2026. The Bank also financed the construction of a new
runway at the Jomo Kenyatta International Airport in Nairobi.

Policy initiatives

The Bank Group approved several multinational operations in trade
facilitation, with significant potential to boost regional integration.
For example, a trade facilitation project along the Lobito corridor
between Angola and Zambia set up a simplified trade regime for
small cross-border traders - including many women - who are
subject to double taxation. Moreover, a one-stop border post
between the two countries at the Jimbe border will facilitate crossborder trade and benefit local SMEs by linking them to established
firms in regional value chains.

The Bank launched the second edition of the Africa Visa Openness
Index in 2017. The index has helped raise awareness and drive deep
visa policy reforms across the continent, unlocking opportunities
for intra-regional tourism, trade, and investment. Several additional
countries have embarked on reforms of visa procedures, including
Benin, Ghana, Malawi, Senegal, and Tunisia.

The Bank participated in negotiations on the Continental Free Trade
Area, to be launched in March 2018. It seeks to mobilize USD 8
million to support implementation of the Boosting Intra-African
Trade (BIAT) Action Plan.

Annual Report 2017

Improve the Quality of Life for
the People of Africa

In 2017, the Bank Group’s focus in this High 5 priority area was on
jobs. By the end of the year, job creation had been mainstreamed in
46 percent of Bank-approved operations. Bank Group approvals in
2017 are expected to create or support 56,510 small and medium
enterprises (up from 24,438 in 2016), and train close to half a million
people, mostly youth. Operations in the water supply, sanitation, and
hygiene sector continued to receive attention. Among non-lending
operations, nutrition was high on the Bank’s agenda. Approvals for
the Improve the Quality of Life for the People of Africa priority in
2017 totaled UA 2.8 billion, close to 46 percent of total approvals.

Water and sanitation

The Bank Group approved 18 operations worth UA 338 million in the
water and sanitation sector in 2017. These operations are expected
to provide access to safe water for 4.7 million people and to
improved sanitation for about 15.2 million people. They will support
job creation and enhanced water sector governance, leading to
more sustainable and equitable service delivery.

UA 2.8
billion

to Improve the
Quality of Life
for the People
of Africa

Approvals in 2017 will
provide safe water and
Improved sanitation to some

20 million
people

The largest approval was for a sustainable water supply and
sanitation program for Rwanda, financed by a Bank loan of USD 121
million, with an additional USD 50 million from the Africa GrowingTogether Fund. The program will extend infrastructure and services
to Kigali and seven satellite towns, benefiting an estimated 1.1
million people with improved water supply and 475,000 more people
with better sanitation.

In Ethiopia, the Bank Group approved a water supply, sanitation,
and hygiene program to expand access to such facilities in rural and
pastoralist areas hit by drought in the Horn of Africa. The program
will improve the livelihoods of about 3 million people and increase

Box 2.5

Water and sanitation projects improving
peoples’ lives in Kenya and Mozambique

In Kenya, the Nairobi Rivers Rehabilitation project
(UA 39.9 million, approved in 2010) aimed to upgrade
the quality, availability, capacity, and sustainability
of wastewater services in Nairobi through the
construction, rehabilitation, or extension of sewerage
services and wastewater treatment plants. The
project improved the quality of water and reduced the
incidence of typical waterborne diseases by nearly
46 percent in one year. In addition, it created 2,000
jobs at the implementation stage and is projected
to generate an additional 200 jobs. The Kariobangi
wastewater treatment facility will produce about 0.5

Wastewater treatment plant,
Dandora, Kenya

hrough a Hic

resilience to climate change in affected communities. Nearly 8,000
water schemes will be constructed or rehabilitated across 177
districts where water shortages affect health, thus reducing the
incidence of diseases like typhoid. A Bank grant of USD 5.5 million
in 2017 is in addition to initial funding of USD 91 million for the same
project in 2014.

Projects completed in Mozambique and Kenya in 2017 show
significant positive impacts on the quality of life (Box 2.5).

Mozambique

megawatts of electricity, meeting more than 60
percent of the need, by digesting sludge, whose
by-product is usable as a soil conditioner.

A rural program in Mozambique, financed by an
African Development Fund (ADF) grant of UA 12.7
million in 2010 increased sustainable access to
improved water supply and sanitation in the poorly
served provinces of Nampula and Zambezia.
The water supply improved for 224,000 people,
and better sanitation facilities were provided for
496,000 people.

Inauguration of public water tap, Nampula Province,
Mozambique2| Bank Group Operations through a High 5 Lens

Urban development

The Bank is giving renewed attention to cities and urban development
to ensure that urbanization delivers on its promise of a better life for
the growing number of urban residents. In 2017, the Bank Group
invested UA 238 million to modernize Senegal’s capital, Dakar,

ure 2.3. The Daka

including the “Promovilles” program, upgrading 78 km of urban
roads in 13 municipalities, and the Dakar-Diamniadio-Blaise Diagne
Airport Regional Express Train project (Figure 2.3).

iamniadio-Blaise Diagne Airport Regional Express Train (TER), Phase 1

 

TER — What will change

PTB's speed 20 km/h 60 km/h

Average

travel time
between Dakar
and Rufisque
(near Diamniadio)
via the PTB

2hrs 45min

 

Passengers
per day
(current use
of the PTB)

25,000 113,000

HIGHWAY A1

PHASE |

Rae
line between Dakar
ETM EEL OME)
with 8 stops and 5

stations, of which 2
EMME |

DAKAR

  

15 Annual Report 2017

Financed by an ADB loan of CFAF 120 billion, the 55 km-long railway will
connect the heart of the capital to the new Blaise Diagne Airport (funded by
the Bank in 2010), reducing the journey time between the historic stations of
Dakar and Rufisque from about two hours to just 45 minutes. The TER will also
serve a digital technology park, another Bank-financed project, currently under
construction, in the bustling city of Diamniadio.

The project is a great complement to the Dakar-Diamniadio toll highway
(picture), co-financed by the Bank in 2010 (Phase I) and 2014 (Phase Il). Co
into operation in October 2016, the highway has reduced the average travel time
from more than three hours to less than 30 minutes, with its impacts felt acro:
Senegal.

    
 
 
 

    
   
  
 
  
   
 

CAMBERENE
HANN

YOrF
AEROPORT

 

PHASE II

A19km line between
Diamniadio and the
Blaise Diagne
International AirportInformation and communication
technology

In 2017, the Bank Group continued to support the spread of
information and communication technology (ICT) infrastructure and
digital services across Africa, investing UA 72 million in two projects
in the Central African Republic and Tunisia.

The Central Africa Fiber Optic Backbone project, with 1,000 km
of cabling, aims to boost ICT connectivity in the Central African
Republic to diversify the economy, secure efficiency gains from
lower transaction costs, and ultimately create jobs. The project
will set up a data center, an ICT training center, an incubator at the
University of Bangui, and some 20 digital community centers along
the path of the optical fiber link. It will expand internet access to
at least 20 percent of the population, substantially reduce the cost
of mobile telephony, and increase the ICT sector's contribution to
government revenue from 10.2 percent to 15.0 percent by 2021.
This operation complements the 2016 Trans-Saharan Optical Fiber
Backbone project.

Box 2.6
Promoting youth Zimbabwe
employment in Zimbabwe g

Sharon Muchena is from Mutare, Zimbabwe. A
Bank-funded Youth ai ourism Enhancement
project trained her in garment making at
the Mutare Vocational Training Centre in
Zimbabwe. Sharon and her colleagues run
one of the four small enterprises set up and
registered at the end of the project in 2017.

TS
ye

Youth and Tourism Enhancement project in Zimbabwe

 

Bank Group Operations through a High 5 Lens | 2

In Tunisia, the Bank is supporting Digital Tunisia 2020, the country’s
strategic plan for the ICT sector, through a loan of EUR 71.6 million.
The project will increase IT competency among young graduates
to better prepare them for employment in the ICT and emerging
sectors, as the country seeks to integrate more effectively into
global value chains. The Bank’s intervention will create about
5,000 jobs, especially for youth and women.

Human and social development

The Bank Group places great importance on skills development
and jobs, especially for Africa’s youth, as vehicles for human and
social development. The Jobs for Youth in Africa (JfYA) strategy
became fully operational in 2017, with an array of advocacy and
capacity-building activities, including Board approval of the Youth
Entrepreneurship and Innovation Multi-Donor Trust Fund. With initial
commitments of USD 4.4 million from Denmark and Norway, the fund
will support building youth innovation labs and entrepreneurship
ecosystems across Africa.

In 2017, various training activities were deployed to strengthen
internal capacities, along with tools for mainstreaming youth
employment and job creation. Attention was also paid to the
supply side of skills development to tackle youth unemployment,
as illustrated by the Youth and Tourism Enhancement Project in
Zimbabwe (Box 2.6).

The Bank Group approved 11 operations worth UA 279 million in
support of human and social development. These approvals are
projected to deliver significant outcomes. For example, a skills
and business development program in Rwanda (UA 60 million) is
expected to enhance enterprise growth, especially in the export
sector, lifting the share of exports in GDP from 19 percent in 2016
to 22 percent by 2020. An ICT competency project in Tunisia (UA 60
million) will extend digital technology use in secondary schools from
20 percent in 2016 to 26 percent in 2022 and create some 5,000
direct and indirect jobs, especially for youth and women. Tunisia
also received financing for a large, inclusive regional development
project (UA 100 million).

Nutrition

2017 was eventful for the Bank Group’s nutrition initiatives, with
the conclusion of major partnership agreements with the Bill &
Melinda Gates Foundation (African Leaders for Nutrition) and with
the Dangote Foundation and the Big Win Philanthropy (Banking
on Nutrition). The Bank joined hands with the Scaling Up Nutrition
(SUN) Movement to organize the SUN Global Gathering in Abidjan
in November. The 2017 Global Nutrition Report, launched at the
conference, highlighted that without massive investment in nutrition
(in the order of USD 7 billion annually), many countries would miss
their global nutrition targets.

Annual Report 2017

162 Bank Group Operations through a High 5 Lens

17

Cross-cutting issues
Countries in situations of fragility

The Transition Support Facility (TSF) - the main vehicle for financing
the Bank Group’s interventions in countries in fragile situations approved UA 302.8 million in 2017 for supplemental support (TSF
Pillar 1) and targeted technical assistance and capacity-building
(TSF Pillar 3) in 2017. Of this amount, UA 63.7 million came from the
ADF 13 cycle, which ended in April 2017, with the rest from the ADF
14 cycle. Resources earmarked for debt relief under TSF Pillar 2 (UA
392.3 million) remained unused at the end of 2017 and were rolled
over to ADF 14 for the same purpose.

As a reflection of the regional dimension of fragility and the Bank’s
increasing use of regionally coordinated approaches to address
it, UA 125 million was approved for 14 regional operations, or 52
percent of TSF approvals. The energy sector absorbed about 22
percent of approvals.

Among other activities, the Bank Group designed and piloted a new
tool - the Country Resilience and Fragility Assessment - to improve
its assessment and analysis of fragility by integrating factors
not previously taken into account, such as social cohesion and
environmental fragility. The Bank also launched the Africa Resilience
Forum in January 2017.

The Bank reached out to civil society organizations to enhance its
operations in fragile situations. In Eritrea, for example, the Bank has

Annual Report 2017

been working with the influential National Union of Eritrean Women
to integrate a gender perspective into its Drought Resilience and
Sustainable Livelihood Phase II Project. This approach leverages the
role of women as agents of change.

Promoting gender equality and civil
society engagement

In 2017, the Gender, Women, and Civil Society Department became
fully operational following approval of the new Development and
Business Delivery Model. To strengthen gender analysis in Country
Strategy Papers and country projects, gender specialists were
assigned to regional resource centers.

The Gender Marker System - the Bank’s approach to mainstreaming
gender in its operational work - was also approved during the year.
Department staff were trained to use the system in preparation for its
full rollout in 2018. A mid-term review of the Gender Strategy was
completed in 2017. While noting an increase in gender-responsive
practices and policies since the adoption of the Gender Strategy in
2014, the Review rated implementation as modest in terms of
efficiency. Implementation was hampered by a shortage of gender
specialists in the Bank and some RMCs. Within the Bank, poor
cross-departmental communication and a lack of collaboration
were cited as additional constraints. Among its recommendations,
the Review called for greater effort in gender-responsive monitoring
and evaluation.

HE
ATIVE INDUSTRIES

HIONOMICSIn November 2017, the Bank co-organized a regional gender statistics
workshop, bringing together 68 representatives from 50 RMCs to
review and validate the first edition of the Africa Gender Index, a joint
initiative of the Bank and the Economic Commission for Africa. Under
Fashionomics - a program to support micro, small, and medium
enterprises in the textile and fashion sector - the Bank conducted
training workshops in financial and business planning, branding,
marketing, and networking in Ethiopia and Nigeria. A total of 293
textile and fashion entrepreneurs were trained, including 188 women.

In pursuit of its engagement with civil society organizations (CSOs),
the Bank held extensive consultations on the Civil Society
Engagement Action Plan and held a Civil Society Panel at the
Annual Meetings in May 2017. The panel showcased the diverse
forms of CSO engagement in the Bank Group’s operations, focusing
on agriculture, in line with the theme of the Annual Meetings. It
provided a platform to reflect on key challenges in Bank-CSO
partnerships for agricultural transformation in Africa and to explore
strategies for enhancing such partnerships.

Supporting governance and
accountability

The Management-imposed 15-percent cap on ADB-financed
program-based operations (PBOs) during 2017 effectively limited
the Bank Group’s governance-related operations, which declined
56 percent relative to 2016. Twenty-two governance (multisectoral)
projects were delivered through the ADF and ADB entities for a
total value of UA 1.1 billion. This represented about 17 percent of
total approvals, compared with 29.4 percent in 2016. Approvals for
countries in fragile situations totaled UA 132 million.

The Central Africa region, which continued to suffer in 2017 from
the decline in commodity prices, received 52 percent of Bank Group
lending in support of governance. The largest PBO - UA 405 million
- was to assist Gabon in implementing economic and financial
reforms to consolidate public finance, improve the investment
climate, and boost agriculture’s competitiveness. Other PBOs
approved for Central Africa were for Cameroon (UA 149 million) and
Chad (UA 46 million).

Domestic resource mobilization received considerable attention in
2017. PBOs and institutional support programs to 10 RMCs focused
on strengthening institutional capacity and supporting tax and
customs administration reform to boost internal revenue collection.
Among non-lending activities in the governance sector, the Bank
Group approved the Policy on the Prevention of Illicit Financial
Flows and, with the African Capacity Building Foundation, produced
anew flagship report on financial governance — African Governance
Outlook 2017. The Bank continued to support the African Peer
Review Mechanism, participating in the second review of Uganda
during the year.

Bank Group Operations through a High 5 Lens | 2

Climate change

In November 2017, the Bank Group approved the second Climate
Change Action Plan 2016-2020, endorsing three targets that will drive
the Bank Climate Change and Green Growth Department's work:

+ Ensuring that at least 40 percent of Bank Group approvals are
tagged as climate finance by 2020, with equal proportions for
adaptation and mitigation.

+ Mainstreaming climate change and green growth initiatives into
all Bank investments by 2020.

+ Mobilizing significantly more new and additional climate finance
to Africa by 2020.

In 2017, the Bank made some progress on each of the targets.
About 28 percent of all approvals were allocated as climate finance,
up from 9 percent in 2016 - a major step toward the 40 percent
target set for 2020 (Figure 2.4). The Bank Group continued to
identify adaptation, resilience, and mitigation options in its projects,
and some 70 percent of projects approved in 2017 were climateinformed. The Bank Group mobilized USD 123 million from global
climate funds during 2017 and stepped up efforts to access bilateral
and private funds.

At the operational level, all the Bank Group’s approvals in the power
sector in 2017 supported renewable energy projects that will generate
1.4 gigawatt (GW) of clean energy and reduce greenhouse gas
emissions by over 2.8 million tons annually. The Bank Group also
made significant investments in climate-change adaptation and

Vis
Et]

2.8 million

ton equivalent of CO2

2017 approvals
expected to create

1.4 GW

of renewable
generation
capacity

Annual Report 2017

182 Bank Group Operations through a High 5 Lens

Figure 2.4 Climate finance in 2017

19

USD 2.35
billion

classified as climate
finance by the Bank Group

million

28% of all
approvals

40% of
approvals
per year
by 2020

resilience-building projects in the Horn of Africa and elsewhere. These
include operations in agriculture, such as the Drought Resilience and
Sustainable Livelihoods programs in Eritrea, the Climate-Resilient
Livestock Management Project in Zambia, and the humanitarian relief
to people affected by famine in Kenya and South Sudan. Further
investment in climate and weather observation infrastructure was
approved for five regional climate centers across Africa.

The Bank was particularly active in non-lending activities, leading
climate-change advocacy, forging new partnerships, and developing
innovative solutions. At the flagship Africa Day, organized on the
margins of the 23rd session of the Conference of the Parties in
Bonn in November 2017, the Bank launched the Africa NDC Hub
- a platform to help African countries enhance and implement their
Nationally Determined Contributions (NDCs).

In November 2017, the Bank signed the Accreditation Master
Agreement with the Green Climate Fund (GCF), which authorizes the
Bank to disburse GCF resources for approved funding proposals.
The Bank already serves as implementing agency for the Global
Environment Facility and the Climate Investment Funds. The Bank
was also re-accredited, in April 2017, to the Adaptation Fund for
another five years.

Annual Report 2017

USD 783

adaptation

 

 

USD 1.56
billion
mitigation

Bank Group operations by
financing entity

Bank Group approvals amounted to UA 6.20 billion in 2017 (Figure
2.5). Approvals through the ADB totaled UA 4.50 billion, lower than
2016, due mainly to sovereign operations (UA 2.80 billion), which fell
36.7 percent during the year (Table 2.1).

This decline is attributable to several of the same factors that
underpin the lower volume of total approvals, mentioned earlier:
2016 lending volumes were exceptionally high, as the Bank stepped
up its counter-cyclical financial support to RMCs hit by sharp
declines in commodity prices, and facing critical fiscal and current
account gaps. In 2017, however, the situation improved significantly,
reducing the need for counter-cyclical interventions by the Bank.
Moreover, Bank Management decided to cap PBOs at 15 percent of
ADB financing to shift additional lending into investment operations,
and to ensure that the institutional prudential ratios and AAA rating
are not compromised. Some of the Bank’s ADB countries also faced
high levels of debt, limiting their headroom for additional borrowing.
With UA 1.71 billion in approvals, non-sovereign operations (NSOs)
proved more resilient, declining by only 11 percent. Consequently,Bank Group Operations through a High 5 Lens | 2

Table 2.1

Figure 2.5 Bank Group approvals by financing

Bank Group Total Approvals by Financing

entity, 2015 - 2017 (UA billions) Source, 2016 and 2017 (UA millions)

 

 

Financing 2016 2017
Source Operations Operations
. Ordinary Resources

ry
ADB private* 1,918.5 1,706.5

6
ADB public 4,416.7 2,795.6

5
ADB total* 6,335.3 4,502.2

4
ADF* 1,267.9 959.5,

3
NTF 18.5 
2
Subtotal 7,621.7 5,461.7

1

| a | Special Resources
2015 2016 2017 PSF 90.8 150.7
TSF 162.5 302.8
Bank Group African African
Development Development Special funds 160.3 280.8
Bank Fund

Bank Group** 8,035.3 6,195.9

* Excluding Special Resources. ** Bank Group approvals in 2017 (UA 6,196
million) included Ordinary Resources (ADB, ADF, and NTF) of UA 5,462 million and
Special Resources of UA 734 million. Amounts may not add up due to rounding.

the share of NSOs in ADB approvals increased to 37.9 percent
in 2017, the highest in recent years. Lines of credit to financial
institutions represented 31 percent of NSOs in 2017.

ADF approvals in 2017 came to UA 959.5 million (Table 2.1). There
were no approvals under the NTF. Approvals for the Private Sector

Credit Enhancement Facility (PSF), the Transition Support Facility (TSF),
and Special Funds all increased sharply in 2017, albeit from a low base.
Loans and grants represented the bulk of ADB (95 percent) and ADF
(98.5 percent) approvals, with guarantees making up 4 percent and
1.5 percent, respectively, of financing under the two entities. All of the
financing under the PSF was in the form of guarantees (Table 2.2).

Table 2.2 Bank Group Approvals by Financing Instrument, 2017 (UA millions)

 

Ordinary Resources Special Resources

Financing ADB* ADF* NTF Subtotal PSF TSF SF Bank Group
Instrument
Total loans and grants 4,264.13 945.35 - 5,209.48 - 280.71 - 5,490.19
Other approvals 238.05 14.13 - 252.18 150.70 22.07 280.81 705.75
Of which =
Equity participation 69.96 - - 69.96 - - - 69.96
Guarantee 168.08 14.13 - 182.21 150.70 22.07 - 354.98
Other - - - - - : 280.81 280.81
Total 4,502.18 959.48 - 5,461.66 150.70 302.78 280.81 6,195.95
approvals

“Excluding Special Resources.

Annual Report 2017 202 Bank Group Operations through a High 5 Lens

21

Bank Group private sector operations

The Bank Group has put in place a strategy to
promote a competitive private sector in Africa
as an engine of sustainable economic growth
and productive employment creation. In 2017,
total approvals for private sector operations (in
the real, or non-financial, sector) amounted to
UA 512.8 million, with the largest share (30 percent) absorbed by industrialization projects.

From a High 5 perspective, the Bank Group
approved the Segou Solar Photovoltaic
Power Project in Mali (UA 18.5 million) and the
Natchigal Hydraulic Dam Project in Cameroon
(UA 150 million), the largest non-sovereign
operation for the Light Up and Power Africa
priority. For Feed Africa, the Bank approved,
among others, a senior loan of UA 79.6 million
for investments in processing wheat and palm
oil to help the Olam Group, a multinational,
deepen its agricultural value chain. And for
Industrialize Africa, the Bank Group approved
a dredging project in Mauritania (UA 46 million),
a cement project in Morocco (UA 39.9 million),
and a mine and infrastructure project in Guinea
(UA 71.1 million).

Innovative financing

The creation of a new Syndications, Co-financing, and Client Solutions
Department in 2017 heralds the Bank’s renewed thrust in promoting the
use of innovative financial products, including guarantees, local
currency financing, co-financing, blended finance, and syndicated loan
structures in financing sovereign and non-sovereign operations and in
optimizing the balance sheet. The Soft Commodity Finance Facility
(USD 20 million) approved for Meridian, a Southern Africa-based
company specializing in commodity exports, exemplifies the Bank
Group’s use of innovative instruments to onlend to priority sectors, such
as agribusiness. The company will use the funds to buy commodities
directly from small farmers in Malawi, Mozambique, and Zimbabwe,
allowing these farmers to integrate into Meridian’s extensive value
chains and boosting intraregional trade and agricultural productivity.

The Bank also co-led several private sector syndications. For
example, for Bujagali Energy Limited in Uganda, it restructured the

Annual Report 2017

Bank Group financial sector operations

Financial sector operations aimed to increase
access for the underserved, particularly women
and youth, and to broaden and deepen Africa’s
financial systems. Total approvals amounted
to UA 1.16 billion, of which 29 percent was
dedicated to Industrialize Africa, 21 percent
to Integrate Africa, 18 percent to Improve the
Quality of Life, and 15 percent to Light Up and
Power Africa. These transactions involved,
among others, a facility to finance Meridian’s
commodity exports; a USD 450 million trade
finance facility to the African Export-Import
Bank, with a sizable portion dedicated to
supporting intra-African trade; and a total equity
investment of USD 15 million to Shore Capital
Fund to increase access to financial services for
individuals and small businesses.

The Bank also approved several sovereign operations in the financial sector, including a senior
loan of USD 25 million to the Zambia National
Building Society, which is projected to create at
least 1,667 permanent jobs, mainly for youth. A
sovereign-guaranteed loan of USD 100 million
to MauBank in Mauritius will support SMEs in
various sectors.

company’s outstanding debt of USD 451 million by replacing its
share of the debt (USD 68 million) maturing in 2023 with a new 15year senior loan of USD 105 million and negotiated a similar
restructuring of the outstanding debt to the International Finance
Corporation. In Madagascar, an ADF partial credit guarantee on an
initial TSF financing of USD 7.5 million succeeded in raising USD 40
million from the syndicated loan market. Among other significant
initiatives, the Bank Group closed a USD 300 million concessional
loan from the Japan International Cooperation Agency (JICA) to fund
NSOs and leveraged USD 53 million in JICA co-financing for
sovereign operations.

On the whole, the Bank’s private sector investments (UA 1.71
billion) mobilized UA 4.23 billion in co-financing, for a leverage ratio
of 1:2.5. For sovereign operations, additional co-financing of UA
3.42 billion was leveraged from partners such as the World Bank,
the European Union, the European Investment Bank, the Islamic
Development Bank, and Agence Frangaise de Développement
(AFD), among others.Highlights of Bank Group
regional approvals

On 31 December 2017 the Bank Group’s portfolio (UA 36.49 billion)
was distributed as follows:

Central Africa: 9.2 percent
East Africa: 22.5 percent
North Africa: 18.3 percent
Southern Africa: 22.1 percent
West Africa: 25.7 percent
Multiregional: 2.1 percent

Figure 2.6 shows the regional distribution of the Bank Group’s
approvals in 2017. Viewed through a High 5 lens, regional approvals
were not very different from aggregate approvals. For example, the
Improve the Quality of Life priority accounted for the largest share of
approvals in all five regions, followed by Light Up and Power Africa
- reflecting their ranking in total approvals. Beyond these, regional
approvals by High 5 reflected region-specific priorities.

Central Africa

Central African economies expanded at an average of 1.4 percent in
2017, the slowest of all African regions. Although this is higher than
the 0.3 percent in 2016, growth contraction in the Republic of Congo
(-3.4 percent) and Equatorial Guinea (-2.5 percent) weighed the
region down. Macroeconomic conditions have deteriorated sharply,
stoked largely by the fall in oil revenues, despite the recovery in oil
prices. In a region where oil continues to dominate economic activity,
this situation underscores the urgency for structural transformation.
Bank Group approvals for Central Africa reached UA 1.12 billion in
2017, 85 percent higher than in 2016. The sharp increase pushed up
the region’s share of total approvals to 18.2 percent in 2017. Large
budget support operations for Gabon (UA 405.4 million) and
Cameroon (UA 151.2 million) made up half the region’s approvals.

Multinational projects (UA 277.6 million) absorbed about 25 percent
of approvals for the region. Besides the Cameroon-Chad power
interconnection project (Box 2.7), two other projects in the transport
sector sought to deepen links between the two countries — a bridge
over the Logone River between the towns of Yagoua in Cameroon
and Bongor in Chad and a feasibility study for the extension of the

2 There is a change in the methodology for attributing multinational operations
to regions. Previously, all such operations were lumped under a separate
category —Multinational. For 2017, multinational operations occurring in a
specific region were assigned to the region in question. Thus, a project involving
Uganda and Kenya, for example, will appear in the East Africa approvals.
The Multinational category is now a residual category comprising projects
that cut across more than one region. Henceforth, this category will be called
Multiregional.

     
 
   
 

Bank Group Operations through a High 5 Lens | 2

Figure 2.6 Bank Group approvals by region, 2017

 

~

UA 928.5M
15%

      
  

West

UA 1,242.7M
20.1%

UA 1,124.6M

18.2%
Multiregional UA 910.7M
UA 885.2M 14.7%
14.3%

Box 2.7

Cameroon-Chad
mM CRUTCH
Project

Cameroon

This project will extend a 700 km power transmission line and build a 250 km ramp between
Maroua in Cameroon and N’Djamena in Chad
and implement a rural electrification program
along each line corridor. When the project is
completed, 478 localities (409 in Cameroon and
69 in Chad) will have access to on-grid power.

One of Central Africa’s priority integration
projects, it will allow both countries to optimize
their energy resources by integrating their
power generation, transmission, and distribution
infrastructure, thus increasing access to
electricity. The Bank Group has invested UA
216 million. The other co-financiers of the UA
333 million project are the European Union and
Islamic Development Bank.

 

Annual Report 2017

222| Bank Group Operations through a High 5 Lens

23

Cameroon-Chad rail line. The Bank Group is also supporting
integration through a trade facilitation project in the Economic
Community of Central African States (ECCAS).

An integrated transport project in Democratic Republic of Congo,
completed in December 2017, involved the construction of a 64.8
km road between Loange and Lovua and the rehabilitation of 80 km
of rural tracks, two primary schools, and health and sanitary facilities.
The project has improved the quality of life of the rural population.
Specifically, the new road cut the cost of transport between Kinshasa
and Kikwit toward Tshikapa by 72 percent, reducing trade costs and
easing mobility in the country.

   
  
      
 
      

Mobility in the region what will change

  
 

The vehicle
travel time
Kapchorwa - Kitale

Sh

2h.
30min 15min

  

 
 
  
 

The average
speed

of the entire section
of Eldoret Bypass

26km/h 42km/h

    
  
   

Average
passenger
fare/person
Kapchorwa-Kitale

4USD 3USD

   

The Bank Group approved a total of USD 253.0 million in loans to the
Governments of Kenya (USD 147.3 million) and Uganda (USD 105.7
million) for upgrading a 118 km road connecting the two countries,
building a 32 km bypass around the Kenyan town of Eldoret, and setting
up a one-stop border-post in Suam.

  

The new road will half travel time between Kapchorwa (Uganda) and
Kitale (Kenya) and, together with the one-stop border-post, will help
boost regional trade. The Eldoret bypass will reduce traffic congestion
in the town, increasing the average speed from 26 km per hour along
the existing road to 42 km per hour via the bypass.

/ =

Annual Report 2017

Figure 2.7 The Uganda-Kenya corridor and the Eldoret bypass

RANT EAN

East Africa

East Africa remains the fastest-growing region in Africa, although
real GDP growth fell back slightly in 2017 to 5.3 percent from 5.5
percent in 2016. Growth was quite even across the region, with five
countries recording growth of 5 percent or more. The region also
showed signs of economic diversification, as services and
manufacturing continued to expand in some countries. However,
inflation remains the highest across Africa - 14.3 percent in 2017 fueled by a drought-induced rise in food prices, especially in Kenya.
Total approvals for East Africa in 2017 amounted to UA 1.1 billion

  

Through this project, the Bank is
also financing:

Pees ‘
ee
Communities

5 km paved access
road (Kenya) and 20 sensitized on HIV/
km community road AIDS, road safety
(Uganda) and gender.

      

Creation of postcrash trauma center
and providing of 2
ambulances

  

      
 
 
 
 
    
     
   
 
 
 
   
   
   
 
 
 
   
   
    

    
     

   
  
 
 

. ee e
) 2Ye
of i a | i l
Reforestation Training Construction of
campaign and of health six road-side
community activities workers markets and lorry
(400 people involved) parking bays

 

a
‘
Se
¥ y
a,
ee NES

4

eee
ere b
etc

(ADB loan 2010)

7 weacross 38 operations. The Bank Group continued to support regional
infrastructure development in East Africa (45 percent of the region’s
approvals) and access to finance (16 percent) as foundations for
private sector-led, inclusive growth. NSOs accounted for 22 percent
(UA 227 million) of total approvals, including four lines of credit (three
to commercial banks and one to the Development Bank of Rwanda)
and a senior loan to Uganda’s Bujagali Energy Ltd.

The largest approval was a Bank Group loan of USD 160 million to
construct a second runway at Jomo Kenyatta International Airport in
Kenya, with the government contributing USD 29.6 million. This,
along with the Kenya-Uganda corridor and the Eldoret bypass
project (Figure 2.7), will improve Kenya’s connectivity in the region
and the world, boosting intra regional trade, high-value exports, and
tourist earnings.

To support countries in fragile situations in the Horn of Africa, the
Bank Group approved a climate-change adaptation project for
Somalia and Sudan. The project will create new boreholes to provide
water for irrigation and set up veterinarian services to support farm
and livestock activities and improve food security.

A Bank-financed the Skills, Employability, and Entrepreneurship
Program in Rwanda, the third phase of which was completed in 2017,
shows some progress toward improving the gender balance in
employment. The female participation ratio rose from 42.0 percent to
45.5 percent, and there was an increase in the number of registered
start-ups - a remarkable achievement given that the program lasted
only one year. This progress was due to intensified advertising
campaigns and robust measures to remove barriers to entry of
women in technical and vocational education and training institutions.

Among other activities, the Bank hosted the first business
opportunities seminar for East Africa in Nairobi in October 2017. The
aim was to identify and leverage partnerships with the private sector
for implementing the Bank’s High 5 agenda. For the East Africa
region, the Bank sought support from financial institutions in
expanding its trade finance operations. More than 200 companies
from the region attended the three-day event.

North Africa

North Africa was second to East Africa in economic performance,
growing at 5.2 percent in 2017, up from 3.2 percent in 2016. The
region’s growth was boosted by Libya’s remarkable 70.8 percent
GDP growth (thanks mainly to recovery in oil production and a low
base effect) after deep declines in previous years. Tunisia also
improved its growth performance, growing by 1.9 percent in 2017.
Higher growth rates in Egypt (4.2 percent) and Morocco (4.1 percent)
further underpinned the region’s improved performance. Algeria
ended the year with an estimated 1.6 percent growth in real GDP.
Approvals for North Africa totaled UA 928.5 million in 2017. About a
quarter of the region’s approvals were in energy. This included

Bank Group Operations through a High 5 Lens | 2

Box 2.8

SUC MIC eye) Tg
Complex Project — Phase I,
Morocco

Approved in 2017, Phase | of this project (USD 265
million) aims to develop two solar power plants
(NOORM | and NOORM Il) with a cumulative
capacity of up to 800 megawatts (MW). The
plants will be connected to the national grid
and will have an estimated total annual output
of 1,886 gigawatt-hours guaranteeing electricity
supply for more than 2 million Moroccans
(almost 6 percent of the population) and saving
0.7 ion ton-equivalent of greenhouse gases
from being released into the atmosphere.

An integral part of Morocco’s Solar Program,
which aims to develop power-generating
capacity of at least 2,000 MW by 2020, the
project will help improve the security of power
supply in Morocco. It will be implemented by the
Moroccan Agency for Sustainable Energy, under
a public-private partnership based on the same
mechanisms as for previous projects (Noor
Ouarzazate Solar Complex, Phases | and Il, cofinanced by the Bank Group).

Noor Quarzazate Solar Complex,
Morocco

“With the arrival of the Noor solar
power plant, our turnover has increased by 20 percent, and our staff
has almost doubled. We built a new
point of sale in the plant and we also
have plans for the future. | can say
that the project has helped us a lot.”

 

Annual Report 2017

242| Bank Group Operations through a High 5 Lens

25

 

Noor Ouarzazate | (NOORo |) solar power plant, Morocco

financing of UA 33.96 million toward a solar power project in Egypt,
the region’s largest solar installation, with a projected capacity of 1.8
GW. Along with co-financing from several external partners, the
project has attracted private investment of USD 1.3 billion under the
government of Egypt’s second feed-in tariff program. Approvals in
the transport and communication sectors took up another 18
percent, and the social sector 17.5 percent. Among projects
completed in 2017 is a small-sized, green growth project in Egypt
that has spurred several start-ups in waste management.

The largest approval in the region in 2017 was for Morocco for four
operations totaling UA 372.8 million (40.2 percent of the region’s
approvals), including UA 187.3 million for the Noor Midelt Solar Complex
Project - Phase | (Box 2.8). In Tunisia, the Bank Group’s operations will
help increase access to credit for SMEs, build technological skills for
jobs in the ICT sector, and develop irrigation schemes.

Southern Africa

At 1.7 percent, growth in Southern Africa was better than in 2016
(1.1 percent). The slight upturn is attributable to the improved
performance of the three main commodity exporters: South Africa
doubled its growth to 1.3 percent, Angola’s output expanded by 1.1
percent, and Zambia’s economy grew by 3.9 percent. These three
countries accounted for over 60 percent of the region’s growth.
Growth averaged a respectable 4 percent in Madagascar and
Mauritius but was at 0.8 percent and 2.3 percent respectively in
Namibia and Swaziland.

With UA 910.7 million in approvals in 2017, Southern Africa also
received the largest share of approvals for the Industrialize Africa
priority: 21.2 percent of the region’s approvals (UA 192.6 million). All
three projects approved in this priority were financial sector
operations (one each for Mauritius, South Africa, and Zambia).

Among other major approvals were four operations in Namibia in

governance (UA 165.2 million), agriculture (UA 51.9 million; Box 2.9),
education and training (UA 51.9 million), and transport (UA 103.8

Annual Report 2017

Box 2.9

SIT Ceara CHU gy
in Namibia through
mechanization and seed
TN CALE

Namibia

The UA 51.9 million project aims to improve
household food security and nutrition and
reduce poverty by enhancing agricultural
productivity and output and facilitating job
creation—in line with Namibia’s Fifth National Development Plan. It will directly benefit 294,500 crop producers (more than half
of them women) and some 10,000 livestock
farmers (2,000 of them women), and it will indirectly affect about 800,000 people along the
cereal and livestock value chains. Moreover,
the project will support 111 farmer cooperatives, educate and train more than 2,000
households in food security and nutrition,
support infant feeding programs, and train
4,000 farmers in agricultural practices. It will
generate an estimated 111,240 jobs for men,
women, and youth in agricultural production
and processing.

 

million). With these projects, Namibia alone took up more than half
the region’s total approvals.

Among projects completed in the region, a USD 1.2 billion program
to support power sector reform in Angola led to unbundling the
power utility into separate entities for generation, transmission,
distribution, and regulation. The reforms improved the power
distribution system, boosted revenue collection (by 50 percent
against 2014 levels), and increased the share of metered on-grid
customers from 20 percent in 2014 to 70.5 percent in 2016. The
government used part of the Bank resources to finance the
construction of the 2,070 MW Lauca hydropower dam, which will
double the country’s generation capacity to 5,000 MW by end-2018.

The Bank’s knowledge work for the region — in such areas as trade,
transport, irrigation, fragility, poverty analysis, and public budget
management -— sets the tone for its future engagement. The Bank
also engaged in several strategic partnerships, including with the
private sector, in a bid to mobilize co-financing for energy projects
in Angola and in Sao Tomé and Principe. In Mozambique, it joined
the World Wide Fund for Nature to support the government’s Natural
Capital Program.West Africa

GDP growth in West Africa rose from 0.4 percent in 2016 to 2.7
percent in 2017 on the back of strong performance in several
countries, along with Nigeria’s emergence from recession. Nigeria’s
economy grew at 0.9 percent, up from a contraction of 1.6 percent in
2016, due to increased oil production and growth of agricultural
output. The region’s fastest-growing economies — Burkina Faso, Céte
d'lvoire, Guinea, and Senegal - maintained their strong showing,
growing above 6 percent, while growth improved in other countries
(such as Benin and Ghana). West Africa was still subject to inflationary
pressures, however, with the rate edging up to 13.0 percent in 2017
(from 12.8 percent in 2016), the second highest in Africa.

Bank Group approvals for West Africa in 2017 amounted to UA 1.24
billion, the highest (20.1 percent) across all regions. The transport
sector, with a regional express train project and an urban transport
program for Dakar in Senegal, absorbed 38 percent of the region’s
approvals.

In the agriculture sector, a project for developing an agro-industrial
pole in the Belier region of Céte d'Ivoire took close to UA 80 million.
In the energy sector, approvals included three renewable energy
projects and two major power interconnection projects between
Guinea and Mali, and the North Core project linking Nigeria, Burkina
Faso, Niger, and Benin (Box 2.10). These projects will strengthen
energy security in West Africa and enhance prospects for deeper
integration.

Energy projects also figured prominently among operations
completed in 2017 in West Africa. In Burkina Faso, for example, an
ADF loan of UA 24.5 million to finance the construction or
rehabilitation of 1,723 km of transmission lines and 557 km of
distribution lines has allowed 16,035 households to connect to the
grid. By extending on-grid power supply to three cotton plants in

imi a

 

Bank Group Operations through a High 5 Lens | 2

cee e-eal Burkina
The Nigeria-Burkina
ee \ Ut (sem lg
Interconnection (North Core)

Nigeria

The North Core project will construct or expand
an 842 km transmission line from Birnin Kebbi
in Nigeria to Ouagadougou in Burkina Faso
through Zabori and Niamey in Niger, with a
T-off to Malanville in Benin and with associated
substations.

The project will allow power exchange among
the four countries as well as neighboring
countries through existing interconnections. It
will extend electricity supply to 394 localities
along the line. In particular, it will allow Benin,
Burkina Faso, and Niger to substitute low-cost
thermal and hydropower for expensive diesel
generation, thus reducing the region’s carbon
footprint.

three towns, the project has also made a major economic impact.
Among non-lending operations, the Bank completed a study on
economic diversification in Sierra Leone and, following the expiry of
the West Africa Regional Integration Strategy in December 2017,
started consultations with regional economic communities to
prepare a successor strategy for 2018-22.

Afe Babalola University teaching hospital, Ado-Ekiti, Nigeria

 

Annual Report 2017

2627

 

| Strengthenin
HEL
Management

The Bank Group’s operational performance in 2017 was influenced
by ongoing institutional reforms, which started in April 2016 with the
approval of the Development and Business Delivery Model (DBDM).
Reforms were pursued vigorously in 2017 as the Bank prepared
for accelerated delivery in 2018. Although the transformation
agenda remains unfinished, progress was good in several areas of
organizational redesign.

Annual Report 2017

 

/

 

African Development Bank Headquarters, Abidjan, Cote d'Ivoire

The Delivery Accountability and Process Efficiency Committee,
responsible for proposing to Management process and systemic
reforms aimed at making the Bank more effective and efficient,
completed reviews of 14 key business processes, producing 17
Business Process Re-engineering reports in such areas as budget
preparation and allocation, budget management, and performance
monitoring and fiduciary safeguards. It recommended improvements
in preparing Country Strategy Papers (CSPs) and Regional
Integration Strategy Papers. The Committee additionally worked
with the Bank’s IT department to achieve an 80 percent automation
rate for operational and institutional processes.Budget reforms and management

Budget reforms focused on building the systems and tools needed
to improve the accessibility and reliability of cost accounting
information critical to strategy formulation, planning, and monitoring.
Reports on costs by deliverables were disseminated regularly to
Management. Revamping of the Strategic Resources Assessment
Software - the Bank’s planning and budgeting tool - had reached
advanced stages by the end of the year.

Information technology

Consistent with the new DBDM and the productivity needs of a
multilateral organization in the digital age, the Bank Group adopted
the Digital Strategy 2017-2020 in July 2017. The strategy centers
on seven transformative themes: digital collaboration, project and
client management, online visibility, corporate excellence, financial
management, data management and reporting, and the technology
foundation. Progress was made under all seven themes in 2017.
Major achievements include:

+ Adopting a full unified communications system, including videoconferencing and remote interpretation in Regional and Country
offices.

+ Launching an upgraded intranet for the Bank (intranet 4.0).

+ Implementing e-Bank solutions to reduce printing and create a
seamless workflow for a greener Bank.

+ Upgrading the SWIFT and Summit financial application systems.
+ Implementing an improved WAN (wide area network) solution
across the Bank and some Regional Offices to support the

DBDM.

+ Launching a client-centric campaign and IT staff awards to
facilitate a culture of change toward service excellence.

Digital futures

 

Strengthening Corporate Management | 3

Moving the Bank closer to its
clients

The Bank accelerated implementation of the Updated
Decentralization Action Plan in 2017. By the end of the year, three
of the five Regional Offices were fully operational, with the other two
operating from the Bank’s headquarters in Abidjan. Thirty country
managers were appointed, and 121 staff members were relocated
to the regions. The Bank completed staff rotation and reintegration,
aligned the Operations Manual with the DBDM, and reviewed the
package of benefits and allowances for staff working in Regional
and Country Offices.

In February 2017, the Board approved the opening of new country
offices in Benin, Guinea, and Niger.

Refining the organizational structure

In September 2017, the Board approved a Management proposal to
refine the organizational structure further to enhance overall delivery
effectiveness, including:

+ Redeploying fiduciary staff to the regions, consistent with the
Bank Group’s decentralization plan. This would mitigate fiduciary
risks and reduce costs from duplicating fiduciary functions at the
anchor and the regions.

* Creating a new Country Economics Department (ECCE) within
the Economic Governance and Knowledge Management (ECVP)
Complex to lead the preparation of CSPs and contribute to policy
and operational engagement in Regional Member Countries
(RMCs).

+ Reinstating Water and Sanitation (AHWS) as a department in its
own right and setting up a full-fledged Environmental and Social
Safeguards and Compliance Department.

+ Refining the roles and responsibilities of Country Managers in the
Regional Offices.

+ Introducing a collaborative system to better manage nonsovereign operations between sector Complexes and Regional
Offices.

A dedicated unit - the Organization and Methods Division - was
set up in the Office of the Senior Vice-President to oversee the
proposed, and subsequent, refinements to the Bank’s organizational
structure.

Annual Report 2017

283 | Strengthening Corporate Management

Delivering results

The Bank Group’s success in delivering results for Africa has
been recognized by the Multilateral Organization Performance
Assessment Network (MOPAN), a network of donor countries with
a common interest in assessing the effectiveness of multilateral
development banks (MDBs). In its most recent assessment of the
Bank Group, the MOPAN Report concluded that: “The Bank is a
robust and resilient organization that, while operating in a particularly
difficult environment, is able to continually adjust and improve to
meet the changing conditions.”? The Report noted that the Bank
achieved 97 percent of MOPAN’s key performance indicators, with
a rating of “Highly satisfactory” or “Satisfactory.” Among all MDBs,
the Bank has:

* The lowest administrative-cost-to-adjusted-common- equity ratio.
+ The lowest administrative cost to adjusted common equity.
+ The lowest staff cost per million dollars of lending.

* One of the lowest cost-to-income ratios.

3 The MOPAN assessment covered the period 2014 to mid-2016. The Report was
presented to the Board in October 2017.

Figure 3.1

20
18,76

15

10

2013 2014 2015

Annual Report 2017

Selected portfolio management trends (number of

 

The Bank has indeed stepped up efforts to optimize its performance
and to meet or exceed industry averages. Bank reforms have
boosted efficiency and enhanced delivery. For example, the average
time from approval to first disbursement fell from 18.8 months in
2015 to 13.5 months in 2017 (Figure 3.1). The time for procurement
of goods also decreased, albeit marginally - from 8.5 months to 8.2
months - over the same period.

While Bank performance compares favorably with industry
averages, the institution is committed to improving its performance
in all areas, with portfolio performance a particular area of focus.
The Bank will address recurrent issues such as disbursement
delays, often caused by capacity constraints in executing agencies
and delays by RMCs in ratifying loan agreements and processing
procurement and disbursement documents.

Environmental and social
sustainability

The Environmental and Social Safeguards and Compliance
department uses the Integrated Safeguards System (ISS) to
mainstream environmental and social sustainability considerations
into its operations and policies to ensure that economic growth
in Africa is ‘green’, i.e., environmentally sustainable and socially

 

hs)

From approval to
1st disbursement

From approval to
effectivness

Procurement of goods

Procurement of services

 

2016 2017Powering Africa

inclusive. Through the ISS, the Bank also shows its pledge to
respect and promote human rights on the continent by applying
international norms, standards, and best practices. A key focus
of the Bank is to prevent operational and reputational risks while
avoiding unnecessary adverse impacts and legacy issues. In
implementing the Bank’s transformation agenda during 2017, the
ISS provided clarity and guidance on assessing and managing risks
in the project portfolio.

In 2017, the Department performed 280 due diligence reviews for
150 Bank-approved operations and 130 ongoing activities. The
Climate Safeguard System and the Greenhouse Gas Account tool,
built into the ISS, allowed 70 percent of Bank Group operations
in the year to be climate-informed, with 28 percent of approvals
allocated as climate finance.

Managing for development
results

The Bank Group’s new Results Measurement Framework (RMF)
was adopted in 2017 to better monitor and enhance the impact
of Bank interventions on development. It represents a significant
commitment to improving the way the Bank measures its results
and performance as well as deepening its understanding of
development impacts. To promote a results culture in the Bank, the
RMF has been summarized in a user-friendly booklet. And in the
spirit of innovation, the 2017 edition of the Annual Development
Effectiveness Review reported against the indicators of the new
RMF. The Bank also published two Country Results Briefs - for
Cameroon and Tanzania - that reviewed progress in achieving the
High 5s using various indicators from the RMF.

At the end of 2017, MapAfrica 2.0, an interactive online platform,
covered 800 projects through more than 7,000 points. Launched in
2014 and upgraded in 2016, MapAfrica allows users to geo-locate
the Bank’s operations and survey their impacts, and enables the
Bank to monitor and improve the quality and impact of its operations.

Strengthening Corporate Management | 3

Donor support, agreements,
and replenishment

The Bank Group continued to leverage its statutory and non-statutory
resources through its active and continuing engagement with a wide
range of funding partners - regional and global, traditional and
emerging, existing and potential. Partnerships involved risk-sharing,
co-financing, syndication, and technical cooperation. A total of UA
20.6 million was mobilized in 2017 through bilateral, thematic, and
multidonor trust funds. This included:

+ JPY 242.62 million for the Japanese bilateral fund.

+ EUR 10 million from KWF (the German Development Bank) to
the NEPAD IPPF (New Partnership for Africa’s DevelopmentInfrastructure Project Preparation Facility).

* GBP 2.65 million from the United Kingdom to the Trust Fund for
Countries in Transition.

+ EUR 1.1 million from Italy to the Somalia Infrastructure Fund (SIF)
and the Infrastructure Consortium for Africa.

+ NOK 25 million from Norway and DKK 9.9 million from Denmark
for the Youth Entrepreneurship and Innovation Trust Fund (YEI).

+ USD 3 million from the Rockefeller Foundation to support
agriculture and the JfYA (Jobs for Youth in Africa) program.

The Korea-Africa Economic Cooperation (KOAFEC) Trust Fund with the latest disbursement of USD 9 million received in December
2017, taking its total endowment to USD 75 million - is one of the
largest pools of bilateral grant financing housed at the Bank. It has
also been the most active trust fund since its establishment 10
years ago. In 2017, it approved 34 technical assistance, project
preparation, and capacity-building projects, bringing its portfolio
to more than 90 ongoing projects across 29 African countries,
including many in situations of fragility.

Other agreements concluded by the Bank Group in 2017 will
leverage, jointly with the Islamic Development Bank, USD 2 billion
over the next three years, and mobilize USD 6 billion from the
Government of Japan to launch the Japan-Africa Energy Initiative.
Moreover, a historic framework agreement between the Bank
Group and the European Commission - the Pillar Assessed Grant
or Delegation Agreement (PAGODA) - approved in 2017, will bring
millions in funds to support sovereign and non-sovereign
operations through the EU-Africa Investment Platform.

Under the Africa Growing Together Fund (AGTF), USD 191 million
was approved in 2017 to enable the Bank Group to scale up its
operations in agriculture, energy, transport, and water and
sanitation in five countries, bringing total financing from the AGTF

Annual Report 2017

303 | Strengthening Corporate Management

31

to USD 421 million. From other trust funds, 12 projects worth USD
13 million, and an equity drawdown of USD 4.3 million from the
African Renewable Energy Fund were approved under the
Sustainable Energy Fund for Africa program.

In 2017, the Africa Climate Change Fund (ACCF) expanded from
a bilateral fund with Germany to a multi-donor trust fund with the
joining of two new donors - the Government of Italy, contributing
EUR 4.7 million, and the Government of Flanders, contributing EUR 2
million. During the year, ACCF launched its second call for proposals
to support African countries in accessing climate finance and in
implementing small adaptation projects in vulnerable communities.

In June 2017, the 14th Replenishment of the African Development
Fund (ADF-14) entered into force.’ Resources from the USD
7.06 billion (UA 5.03 billion) fund were channeled in the form of
concessional loans and grants to support investment projects in
some of the poorest African countries.

Human resources

At the beginning of 2017, the Human Resources team embarked on
the implementation of the new organization structure which had been
approved by the Board. That structure reflected the critical work as
well as the competencies required for the effective delivery against
the Bank’s business strategies well as the imperatives to move the
human capital and other resources closer to the clients.

An institution-wide job description review and evaluation was carried
out to ensure that all jobs are appropriately graded and the jobholders equitably rewarded for their contribution. In addition, all
Bank staff went through a validation process to identify those whose
roles had not significantly changed. To this end, 95 percent of the
1,744 staff at post were mapped into the new structure while eightynine (89) staff members, whose jobs were either abolished or had
changed significantly, were not mapped in the new structures. These
impacted staff were encouraged to apply for the new positions within
the new structure which were advertised across the Bank. The Board
of Directors also approved a Voluntary Separation Scheme to be
accessed by the staff who did not wish to continue with the Bank.
Consequently, 42 staff took the voluntary separation package as
offered.

As a result of the implementation of the new structure, 566 vacancies
came up. Management made the decision to optimize the Bank’s

4 The donor countries to ADF-14 are the UK, the USA, Germany, France, Japan,
Italy, Canada, Sweden, the Netherlands, Norway, Switzerland, Austria, China,
Denmark, Korea, Belgium, Finland, Saudi Arabia, India, Kuwait, Luxembourg,
South Africa, Portugal, Egypt, and Turkey. Three of these countries—Japan,
France, and India—agreed to complement their grant contribution with a
concessional loan, and agreements were successfully negotiated with the first
two in 2017.

Annual Report 2017

human capital levels in order to deliver cost effectively against the
work programs. Consequently 298 positions were identified as priority
positions critical for delivering against the High 5s. These included
non-sovereign operations and regional operations management
roles. Of the 298 priority positions, 123 positions had been filled as of
December 31, 2017. As a result, the effective vacancy rates relating
to the 298 priority positions was 7 percent, including the effect of
the strategic use of consultants and short term staff. The process for
filling the balance of the priority positions would be completed at the
end of the first quarter 2018. Subsequent recruitment into the future
would be driven by the critical business needs linked to the growth
trajectory.

Included in the positions filled were the Country Managers for the 30
Country Offices, including the fragile states, who have already been
on-boarded. As part of the implementation of the decentralization
plans, 121 staff were redeployed from the HQ to the Regional Hubs
and Country Offices. As of 31 December 2017, staff in Country and
Regional Offices accounted for 39 percent of total Bank staff in
2017, up from 29 percent in 2016, affirming the Bank’s scaled-up
decentralization efforts in 2017.

The Bank continued with its attention to the diversity agenda with
specific focus on women in management and professional levels,
and closed the year at 28.8 and 27.8 percent respectively against the
corporate key performance indicator of 35 percent.

In order to enhance productivity and build a culture of performance,
Management refreshed the performance management process,
which enables the top-down, and bottom-up and cross-complex
alignment on the corporate Key Performance Indicators. Deeper
differentiation of performance levels was introduced, as was a
stronger feedback procedure enabled through coaching and a critical
incidence reporting tool, as well as personal development planning.

Furthermore, as a part of the process automation imperative, several
HR_ processes were automated including the e-learning, payroll,
contract renewal, probation management, performance management
and a manager and employee self-service. A roadmap for an
integrated HR system was prepared for implementation in 2018.

Acomprehensive review of staff benefits and a salary survey across
the continent resulted in a salary increase for locally recruited staff,
in addition to the Bank-wide performance-based merit increase.

The Bank as knowledge broker

The ECVP Complex leads the Bank’s knowledge work, generating
analytical and policy-relevant research, disseminating such research
through publications, workshops, and dialogues, and conducting
capacity-building activities to support effective policy making
in RMCs. Its role was boosted in 2017 by the Bank’s decision to
create a Country Economics Department within the complex.Strengthening Corporate Management | 3

Table 3.1 Bank Group staffing and employment status as of 31 December 2016 and 2017
HQ Regional/Country Offices
Grand Total
VPs? Directors OtherPL GSStaff Advisers Total RDs and Other PL GS Staff Total
& to EDs Managers”
Managers
Pid
Total staff 7 104 564 348 40 1,063 35 443 203 681 1,744
Male 6 74 386 128 31 625 24 342 102 468 1,093
Female 1 30 178 220 9 438 1 101 101 213 651
% female 14.3 28.8 31.6 63.2 22.5 41.2 31.4 22.8 49.8 31.3 37.3

Total staff 9 411 765 397 39
Male 8 79 520 142 29
Female 1 32 245 255 10
% female 11.4 28.8 32.0 64.2 25.6

1,321 22 333 188 543 1,864
778 15 272 106 393 1,171
543 7 61 82 150 693
41.1 31.8 18.3 43.6 27.6 37.2

Note: Despite ongoing recruitment, head count remains fairly unchanged due to the restructuring and the attendant exits. In addition, 80 percent of the recruitment

is from internal sources and therefore creates further vacancies.
a. VPs and EL3 in 2016.
b. Resident Representatives in 2016.

Research activities

The Bank’s research agenda sought to strengthen the analytical
content of the Bank’s operations by ensuring rigor in CSPs, Economic
Sector Work (ESW), and Board Papers (projects, programs, policy
papers, PBLs among others), thus enhancing the quality of policy
dialogues in RMCs. In 2017, the Macroeconomic Policy, Forecasting,
and Research Department (ECMR):

+ Produced all the flagship publications for the year, namely the
2016 Bank Group Annual Report, the African Economic Outlook
2017, the Africa Competitiveness Report 2017, and five issues of
the African Development Review.

+ Published many well-received economic briefs, working papers,
journal articles, book chapters, and other publications.

+ Published a handbook - Industrialize Africa: Strategies, Policies,
Institutions, and Financing - and the 2016 Additionality and
Development Outcome Assessment (ADOA) Annual Report.

+ Launched a new series on “How They Did It,” with four inaugural
editions.

Among the high-level or flagship events were the annual African
Economic Conference (AEC), co-hosted by the United Nations
Development Programme and the United Nations Economic
Commission for Africa; a Senior Policy Seminar on Industrialization
in Africa, organized jointly with the African Economic Research
Consortium (AERC); and a technical seminar on the Structural
Transformation of African Agriculture and Rural Spaces, in
collaboration with other partners.

The quality and visibility of Bank research has benefited from the
growing number of intellectual contributions from many of the world’s
leading economists (including several Nobel laureates) whose works
are featured in various Bank publications. The department’s working
papers have been classified into the High 5 thematic areas for
greater policy relevance and impact.

Confirming the quality of the Bank’s knowledge products, RePEc
(Research Papers in Economics), a reputable global depository of
economic knowledge, ranked ADB 7th among almost 300 Africabased economic and development research institutions in 2017,
up from 28th, three years earlier. Similarly, the impact factor of the
African Development Review - the Bank’s flagship academic journal improved progressively over the last three years from 0.724 to 1.

Annual Report 2017

323 | Strengthening Corporate Management

33

ECMR’s work on Additionality and Development Outcome
Assessment (ADOA) for private sector operations (PSOs) has proven
an important screening and decision-making tool for enhancing the
quality-at-entry of Bank projects. In 2017, it helped also in prioritizing
regional operations (ROs) in the ADF pipeline. This exercise ensured
that only the most deserving ROs are considered for financing. The
department issued a total 126 ADOA notes - 26 percent over the
year’s target. These notes provided an independent and objective
assessment of proposed projects, which informed and guided
Board decisions on approvals.

In addition, ADOA played an advisory role in helping operational
departments improve the structure of projects for better development
outcomes and stronger value added. In its bid to continually
disseminate and improve the forecast tool, ECMR held training
workshops for investment officers of the Bank and senior project
staff from 18 financial institutions in Africa. ADOA thus played a
key role in mainstreaming a results-oriented culture, both within the
Bank and across the continent.

The Country Economics Department led the Bank’s knowledge work
informing the design of Bank country strategies, operations, and
dialogue with RMCs. During the year, it delivered CSPs and related
documents for 20 countries, and completed eight ESW products.
These knowledge products provided a sound basis for the Bank to
undertake lending and non-lending operations in RMCs in pursuit of
the High 5 priorities.

Statistical knowledge products and
activities

During 2017, the Statistics Department (ECST) continued to align
its statistical capacity-building work program with the High 5
agenda in RMCs, paying particular attention to fragile states, and
supported other Bank sector departments by providing timely and
relevant data. Through its Africa Infrastructure Knowledge Program
(AIKP), ECST projected infrastructure investment needs in various
infrastructure sectors, and estimated resource requirements to
achieve universal energy access by 2025. ECST also scaled up
implementation of the Action Plan for Improving Agriculture and
Rural Statistics, supporting 48 African countries in compiling, for the
first time in decades, the minimum core set of indicators to inform
agricultural policy management and track progress on the Feed
Africa priority.

The department launched continent-wide surveys under the
International Comparison Program (ICP) for Africa, supporting 50
RMCs in collecting price data and compiling GDP expenditure data
to compute purchasing power parity statistics. These statistics are
critical to measuring poverty across countries and to monitoring
Sustainable Development Goal 1 on eliminating poverty. ECST
also provided technical assistance to the Common Market for
Eastern and Southern Africa (COMESA) and the Southern African

Annual Report 2017

Development Community (SADC) for monitoring macroeconomic
policy convergence, and to Cabo Verde, Comoros, Madagascar,
and Sudan for conducting household surveys, analyzing the data,
and producing poverty profiles of the countries.

The African Natural Resource Center

The African Natural Resource Center’s mandate is to assist RMCs
leverage their natural resources for inclusive growth and sustainable
development. In 2017, the Center took government technocrats
and entrepreneurs from Mozambique and Tanzania on a study
tour to Korea to learn from the Korean model in designing and
operationalizing national gas domestication strategies and explore
business opportunities. Best practices and lessons learned from
the Korean model are expected to translate into better policies for
gas utilization in the two gas-rich countries. In Guinea, the launch
of a one-stop shop for licensing mining operations has helped build
the government's capacity to negotiate, implement, and monitor
the development of Simandou, the world’s largest deposit of highquality iron ore. In Liberia, the Center supported the design of a
National Land Dispute Resolution Policy, which has enabled people
to access justice easily and at low cost.

The Center’s diverse knowledge work in 2017 included reports to
the Government of Tanzania on setting up an enabling environment
to maximize the economic gains from its natural gas wealth and
attract increased foreign direct investment in the gas sector. Country
case studies and toolkits on land tenure will guide land reform in
Cameroon, Kenya, Nigeria, Senegal, and Tanzania. The Center’s
studies on the tilapia value chain and on green aquaculture in the
Indian Ocean have informed fish farming value chain development
in Cameroon and Seychelles, respectively.

Other training, knowledge management,
and capacity development activities

The African Development Institute (ECAD) engaged with leading
experts, both internally and externally, to create a platform for
disseminating cutting-edge knowledge in areas that could affect
livelihoods and futures of millions of Africans. The Bank’s Eminent
Speakers’ Seminar Series addressed Optimizing Royalties on
Mining and The Cost of Borders in Africa, bolstering dialogues with
RMCs and the Bank’s partners. Another example of the impact
of the Bank’s knowledge work includes a seminar showcasing
the Saemaul Undong Project in Céte d’lvoire, leading to formal
collaboration with the Saemaul Undong Global Foundation in
supporting staple crop processing zones in Togo. ECAD also
convened national workshops on the Bank’s fiduciary procedures
aimed at enhancing project performance. Immediate outcomes
were visible in the working groups that opened implementation
bottlenecks, thereby accelerating project timelines.4

 

Say

Highlights of the
Boards’-Oversight

 

 

 

Constituted by 80 member countries, the Boards of Governors
are the highest decision making organs of the Bank and the Fund.
Governors are usually a minister of finance, minister of planning, or
central bank governor. The Governors execute their mandate with
the support of five subsidiary organs: the Bureau, the Joint Steering
Committee, the Steering Committee on the Election of the President
of the Bank, the Standing Committee on the Conditions of Service
of Elected Officers, and the Governors’ Consultative Committee.
Furthermore, the Boards of Governors elect 20 members as the
Board of Directors to oversee the management of the institution.

 

 

The Boards of Governors undertook a number of activities in
fulfilling their mandate, including the Fifty-second Annual Meeting
of the Board of Governors of the ADB and the Forty-third Annual
Meeting of the Board of Governors of the ADF, held jointly on 22-25
May 2017 in Ahmedabad, India. The theme of the Annual Meetings
was Transforming Agriculture for Wealth Creation in Africa. During
these meetings, the Governors held discussions with Bank Group
Management on the financial health and operational performance
of the Bank Group.

Annual Report 2017

344| Highlights of the Boards’ Oversight Function

35

Highlights of the Governors’ dialogue

The dialogue presented an opportunity for the Governors to discuss
the progress in the preceding 12 months on the Bank Group’s
institutional reform agenda to fast-track implementation of the High 5s;
the increasing demand for Bank Group assistance; and the projected
funding gap and the financing mechanisms proposed to bridge it.

The Governors reiterated their support for the High 5s and asked for
their speedy implementation to accelerate achievement of the Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs) and African Union Agenda 2063.
They commended the Bank Group for completing the institutional reform commitments for General Capital Increase (GCI-VI), supporting
the continent’s efforts to attain water security; attracting more investment for youth in agriculture, including through the Bank Group’s Jobs
for Youth in Africa Initiative; implementing the New Deal on Energy for
Africa; and increasing disbursement rates. They also commended the
Boards of Directors, Management, and staff for the Bank’s performance in 2016, and encouraged them to continue striving for development impact in the Regional Member Countries (RMCs).

The Governors recognized the need for additional resources to achieve
the High 5s. They expressed support for the Bank’s multipronged
resourcing strategy anchored on increasing co-financing, finetuning lending operations, optimizing the balance sheet, and, in
due course, recapitalizing the Bank. But they urged the Bank to
prioritize more of its lending to high-impact investment projects,
optimize efficiency gains, and leverage additional resources. They
also called for the Bank to deepen dialogues to enhance domestic
resource mobilization and create an environment conducive to
private sector development. The Governors commended the choice
of the theme for the Annual Meetings, Transforming Agriculture for
Wealth Creation in Africa, and emphasized the need to champion the
transition of agriculture in Africa from manual to mechanical and from
subsistence to commercial. They encouraged the Bank to strengthen
support to countries in situations of fragility and to those in transition.

In exercising their statutory duties, the Boards of Governors adopted
the Annual Report and Audited Financial Statements for the Financial
Year ended 31 December 2016, and the Annual Report and Audited
Special Purpose Financial Statements for the Financial Year-ended
31 December 2016. In addition, they adopted resolutions pertaining
to the By-Election of Executive Directors of the African Development
Bank; Selection of Executive Directors of the African Development
Fund; Appointment of Deloitte & Associés as External Auditors for the
Financial Years 2017 through 2021; Allocation and Distribution of
Allocable Income of UA 203.33 million of the African Development
Bank for the Financial Year ended 31 December 2016 (compared with
UA 137.41 million in 2015); and Distribution of Part of the Income (UA
1,897,000) of the Nigeria Trust Fund for the Financial Year ended 31
December 2016. Moreover, the Governors approved Amendments to
the Agreement for the Establishment of the Africa Growing Together
Fund; Conditions of Service of Elected Officers - Annual Review of
the Remuneration of Executive Directors; and the Remuneration of

Annual Report 2017

Elected Officers - Annual Review of the Remuneration of the
President. Other events during the Annual Meetings brought together
stakeholders to explore opportunities for further and deeper
partnerships. Among key results: the signing of agreements for
bilateral cooperation between several African governments and
counterpart governmental entities of India. Also noteworthy was the
signing of a Memorandum of Understanding between the Bank
Group and the International Finance Corporation (IFC) to coordinate
their investments — through the Bank’s Affirmative Finance Action for
Women in Africa (AFAWA) program and the IFC’s Banking on Women
Program — for the benefit of women in Africa. The Bank’s flagship
publication, the African Economic Outlook 2017, was launched.

Boards of Directors

The Boards of Directors act on authority delegated from the Boards of
Governors and are entrusted with the conduct of general operations.
The Boards of Directors exercise all the powers of the Bank and the
Fund except those expressly reserved for the Boards of Governors
by the Bank and Fund’s constitutive instruments.

In 2017, the Boards of Directors supported Management through
strategic direction for attaining the organizational objectives to
improve efficiency, fine-tune the structure, renew the workforce,
move closer to the clients, and focus on projects with greater
potential for development impact. The Boards, supported by the
committees, approved strategies, policies, loans and grants, equity
investments, and guarantees, and the administrative budget.
Highlights of these approvals are provided in this Annual Report.

In all, the Boards approved 150 projects, totaling UA 6.08 billion.*
Of the projects, 51 percent (9 percent by amount) were approved
through the lapse-of-time procedure and 49 percent (91 percent by
amount) in plenary sessions.

Developmental thrust of Country
Strategy Papers and Briefs

In 2017, the Boards approved Country Strategy Papers for Angola,
Benin, Burkina Faso, Central African Republic, Madagascar,
Morocco, Tunisia, and Zambia. The Boards also approved an interim
CSP for Eritrea and Country Briefs for Somalia and Sudan. The
Boards ensured that these documents aligned with each country’s
socioeconomic development priorities, focused on inclusion as
well as selectivity, and addressed economic diversification, fragility,
gender mainstreaming, and regional integration.

5 The remaining UA 120 million of the total Bank Group approvals of UA 6.20
billion, including other special resources and technical assistance, was
approved by Senior Management.Strategic direction to the organization:
Institutional reforms, effectiveness, and
results

Institutional reforms. The Boards oversaw the ongoing institutional
reforms by approving refinements to the Development and Business
Delivery Model (DBDM) to better align the new organizational structure to business needs; reviews of the compensation system to tie
benefits to performance; and a staff separation scheme to help renew the workforce.

Support to decentralization. Instituting the Bank’s objective to move
closer to its clients and enhance policy dialogue, the Board approved the opening of three new Country Offices in Benin, Guinea,
and Niger, increasing the number of Country Offices to 35.

Focus on results. The Boards approved two major instruments. One
is the Bank Group Results Measurement Framework 2016-2025,
to enhance the Bank’s ability to measure how its interventions create and boost economic, social, and environmental value as well
as maximize development impact in Africa. The second is the Bank
Group Policy Instrument on Results-Based Financing, to support government programs and link disbursements directly to the
achievement of results.

Curbing illicit financial flows. The Board approved a policy on
preventing illicit financial flows, setting a framework for the Bank
Group’s contribution to the continent’s response to this issue.

Enhancing the Bank’s IT ecosystem. The Board-approved Bank
Group Digital Strategy 2017-2020, designed to drive greater innovation in the IT system for supporting decentralization, the implementation of the DBDM, and the achievement of the High 5s.

Budget Framework 2018-2020 and Three-Year Rolling Work Program. The Board considered the Budget Framework 2018-2020,
together with a Three-Year Rolling Work Program, and in approving
the administrative budget for 2018 called for operational efficiency
and a focus on development impact and poverty reduction in Africa.

Response to emergencies. The Boards responded decisively to an
emerging catastrophe in the Horn of Africa and Nigeria by approving
the “Say No to Famine” initiative, intended to decrease the exposure
of vulnerable populations to chronic hunger and malnutrition and enhance the resilience of households, communities, and agro-systems
to human-induced and natural shocks.

The Boards’ working modalities

The year 2017 was a particularly busy and productive for the
Boards of Directors. Executive Directors participated in 173 formal
and informal meetings, retreat seminars, and briefing sessions.

Highlights of the Boards’ Oversight Function | 4

The work of the Boards of Directors is conducted largely through
their subsidiary organs, the committees. In 2017, the Boards
were supported by seven standing committees, whose remits are
described in Figure 4.1.

Consultative missions and study tours

Executive Directors undertook consultative missions to the Central
African Republic, Guinea, Namibia, and Tanzania to engage
governments, development partners, the business community, and
civil society actors on the relevance and effectiveness of the Bank
Group's strategy and presence. Similarly, the Senior Advisers and
Advisers to Executive Directors undertook study tours to Benin,
Liberia, Mali, and Uganda to assess the progress of Bank Groupfinanced projects.

The visits afforded Board members the opportunity to learn key
lessons for crafting the Bank’s interventions in its RMCs. These
include giving greater focus to policy dialogue with governments
and civil society; strengthening coordination with other development
partners; supporting the creation of strong national institutions;
building capacity in economic governance; and developing the
infrastructure necessary for social, spatial, and economic inclusion.

Independent Development
Evaluation of the Bank Group

The Independent Development Evaluation (BDEV, also known as
IDEV) works to enhance the development effectiveness of Bank Group
initiatives in its RMCs through independent and impactful evaluations
and through partnerships for sharing knowledge across Africa (Figure
4.2). BDEV produces credible evidence-based evaluations to help
ensure that the Bank Group is learning from its own experiences to
improve its policies, strategies, processes, and operations to achieve
its strategic objective of reducing poverty and fostering economic
growth in Africa.

In 2017, BDEV completed nine evaluation products (Table 4.1),
of which three were distributed to the Board of Directors. Another
25 evaluations were ongoing at year-end and are expected to
be delivered in 2018. BDEV led the production of the Evaluation
Cooperation Group’s reference document on integrating gender into
project-level evaluations.

Knowledge management and learning

In 2017, BDEV continued to disseminate its evaluation reports
and related knowledge products, such as briefs, infographics, and
factsheets. In collaboration with the NORAD Evaluation Department,
it organized learning and knowledge-sharing opportunities, including

Annual Report 2017

364| Highlights of the Boards’ Oversight Function

Figure 4.1 Standing Committees of the Board

37

Standing Committees

of t
CAHR

Committee on Administrative
Affairs and Human Resource
Policy Issues

Oversees the Bank’s
human resource
strategy, policies, and
practices

ECBD

Directors

AMBD

Committee on Administrative

Matters Concerning the Board of
Directors [
Advisers

ECAM

Communications and
the Preparation of the
Bank Group Annual
Meetings

Responsible for the
effective and efficient
functioning of the Boards
of Directors as well as
the welfare of EDs, their

Alternates, and Advisers
, Oversees the Bank’s

external communications
and preparations of the
Annual Meetings

events in Nairobi and Pretoria on private sector development. It
also organized three sessions at the biennial African Evaluation
Association conference. Four issues of Evaluation Matters - BDEV’s
quarterly magazine on evaluation and development perspectives
and insights - were produced and disseminated in print and
electronic versions.

Evaluation capacity development
and partnerships

In 2017, BDEV started a webinar series targeted at the evaluation
community in Africa and beyond, on key evaluation topics and
methodologies. It also provided training to its staff on presentation
skills, theory-based evaluation, and qualitative comparative
analysis. And it built strategic partnerships with expert centers, such
as the Centers for Learning on Evaluation and Results, to promote
a culture of evaluation and to facilitate learning opportunities for
evaluation stakeholders.

Annual Report 2017

  
 
 
   
    

Ethics Committee:
Committee for the
Enforcement of the Code
of Conduct for Executive

Applies to Executive
Directors, their
Alternates, Senior
Advisers, and

Board

AUFI

Audit and Finance Committee

Oversees the Bank’s
finances, accounting, risk
management, internal
controls, and institutional
integrity

 
   
   
   
   
   
   
       

CODE

Committee on Operations and
Development Effectiveness

Assesses the Bank’s
development effectiveness,
guides its strategic
directions, and monitors the
quality and results of

its operations

CWHOLE

Committee for the Whole on
the Budget

Reviews of the
Annual Budget and
conducts mid-term
and end-of-year
reviews thereof

Compliance, accountability,
and intermediate recourse
mechanisms

Compliance
Compliance Review and Mediation

The Compliance Review and Mediation Department handled seven
complaints submitted to the Independent Review Mechanism by
national non-governmental organizations in 2017. The complaints
related to coal-fired power plants, agribusiness, and infrastructure
(airport/transnational road) projects financed by the Bank Group
in Guinea, Mali, Morocco, Senegal, and South Africa. Reports
submitted by the Independent Review Mechanism to the Boards of
Directors recommended that Management prepare and implementFigure 4.2

Independent development

evaluation in 2017

Highlights of the Boards’ Oversight Function | 4

Table 4.1 BDEV evaluation products completed

 

29

MO
Oe

Influential
evaluations

Editions of
Evaluation
Matters

Reference document
on integrating
gender into project
evaluations

Webinars for
capacity building on
evaluation

Knowledge events
on private sector
development

Knowledge Sessions
at AFREA Conference

Ongoing evaluations
to be delivered in
2018/2019

 

Comparative
study

iL Ml. WV.

 

in 2017
Evaluation type Number of
evaluations
completed
Project cluster evaluations of Bank projects in 2

agricultural value chain development and rural
electrification

Sector and thematic evaluations on agriculture 2
value chains and Bank support for the water sector

Country strategy and program evaluations for Céte 2
d’ Ivoire* and Nigeria, to inform the Bank’s new
strategies for these countries

Regional integration strategy and program 1
evaluation for Central Africa, to inform the Bank’s
new strategy for the region

Corporate evaluation of the Bank’s human 1
resource management and strategic directions, to
inform the new strategy for people management*

Comparative study of board processes, 1
procedures, and practices across multilateral
financial institutions*

Note: *Distributed to the Board of Directors in 2017.

action plans to address these complaints concerning involuntary
resettlement, lack of public consultation, health risks from air
pollution, encroachment on livelihoods and cultural heritage sites,
and inadequate social and environmental impact assessment studies.

To enhance institutional capacities in problem solving, the Bank
focused its annual mediation training on community engagement
and grievance redress mechanisms around the Bank Group/IFC cofinanced projects in West African countries (Cote d’lvoire, Ghana,
Guinea, Liberia, Mali, Senegal, and Sierra Leone). The training,
co-organized with the Compliance Advisory and Ombudsman
Office of the IFC, was attended by companies (project sponsors),
Bank staff, and regional representatives of networks of civil society
accountability, and mediation in these countries.

Ethics

In line with the High 5s, the Ten-Year Strategy, and the Ethics Office’s
work program, the Bank continued to raise awareness on ethics and
to assist Management and staff in handling ethical dilemmas. With
the new organizational reforms, the challenge from a business ethics
perspective is to ensure that all staff, wherever located, uphold and
exhibit the highest standards of conduct and behavior expected
of international civil servants. The office strives to ensure that it is
available and reaches out to all staff at Headquarters and at regional
and country offices.

Annual Report 2017 384| Highlights of the Boards’ Oversight Function

39

Accountability and control
Audit

The execution rate of the 2017 Internal Audit Work Program is
satisfactory. Of 44 planned audit assignments in 2017, the Office
of the Auditor General completed nine in the Operations
complexes, comprising eight country portfolios and one projectrelated activity; 22 assignments in the Board, Presidency, Finance,
and Corporate complexes; and eight country office audits. In
addition, the Audit Department carried out special request
assignments, client assistance audits/activities, follow-up on
implementation of past recommendations, and other program
management activities.

Integrity and Anti-Corruption

The Bank’s Whistleblowing and Complaints Handling Policy was
updated to align reporting procedures with the DBDM. During 2017,
78 allegations of sanctionable practices were received (down from 86
in 2016). Of those, 39 were set aside following preliminary screening
for credibility, verifiability, and materiality as not meriting investigation.
The remaining 39 cases (41 in 2016) went into investigation.
Investigations into 26 cases (21 in 2016) were completed and closed,
resulting in the submission of nine (three in 2016) Findings of
Sanctionable Practices to the Sanctions Commissioner for
determination. Of 22 cases of staff misconduct received during the
year, investigations into 12 were completed. Three cases were
referred to other recourse mechanisms within the Bank, while one
was unsubstantiated. Reports on the remaining eight completed
cases were submitted to Management for appropriate action.

The Africa Integrity Fund, derived from fines and penalties imposed
on companies found to have engaged in sanctionable practices,
stood at USD 55 million at the end of 2017. The fund supports
anti-corruption measures and strengthens the transparency and
accountability of public resource management in RMCs.

Recourse mechanisms
Office of the Ombudsman

In 2017, 73 cases were brought to the attention of the Office of the
Ombudsman, of which 99 percent were closed within an average of
four weeks, in line with the key performance indicators. The caseload
breakdown was as follows: career development and job security
(45 percent), conduct and abuse of power (32 percent), policy
implementation (17 percent), performance evaluation (4 percent),
and compensation and benefits (2 percent). The office organized the
8th Annual Conflict Competency Week on the theme Best Practices
in Resolving Employment Disputes in International Organizations,
which was attended by law students from universities in Abidjan.

Annual Report 2017

Administrative Tribunal

The Administrative Tribunal held one judicial session and one
plenary session in Abidjan from 8 to 14 August 2017. The judicial
session examined four applications. One was related to allegations
of work-related injuries, for which the tribunal granted 100 percent
medical coverage for one type of injury. Two applications challenged
termination of service for the abolition of post; one was declared
without merit and the other struck from the roll after an amicable
settlement. The fourth application concerned the motion to dismiss
raised by the Bank against an application challenging the deduction
from a staff member’s severance benefits of unpaid phone bills for
non-professional calls. The tribunal invited both parties to continue
the proceedings on the merits. The tribunal also registered five
new applications. One was withdrawn at the applicant’s request
following a settlement with the Bank. Of the other four, one was a
non-renewal of contract for poor performance and the other three
were dismissals, including two for serious misconduct.

Staff Appeals Committee

The Staff Appeals Committee received five appeals in 2017 and
disposed of two by the end of the year. Most appeals arose from
contested benefit payments, and one was a claim for wrongful
deduction from terminal benefits of a separating staff member.
Reports and recommendations from three appeals heard at the end
of 2016 were submitted in early 2017 for action by the President.
Among notable concerns raised in these appeals were compliance
with internal rules and regulations, respect for due process, and the
need for accountability of both staff and managers. Other pertinent
lessons include the management of performance culture based on the
current system’s objectivity and the review processes for contested
evaluations. Finally, meaningful dialogue about the benefits due to
either separating or active staff should take place at an earlier stage
of a dispute. Undue delays could lead to the Bank incurring penalties
in damages and interest on awards from costly litigation.

Sanctions Appeals Board

In 2017, the Board heard and deliberated on Sanctions Decision
No. 3, a case that arose from the Monrovia Water and Sanitation
Immediate Rehabilitation Project in Liberia. It upheld the decision
of the Sanctions Commissioner, which debarred with conditional
release the respondent company and its managing director for
two years. In line with the Agreement for Mutual Enforcement of
Debarment Decisions of 9 April 2010, the Board hosted the annual
meeting for the multilateral development banks that are signatory
to this agreement. The meeting was held in Abidjan from 26 to 27
October 2017 and was attended by representatives of the European
Bank for Reconstruction and Development, Inter-American
Development Bank, and World Bank, along with the Global Fund,
which attended as an observer.7

and A

Despite the challenging business and low interest rate environment,
the overall financial performance of the Bank Group in 2017 was
strong. The Bank maintained its AAA rating with a stable outlook
from all four rating agencies and consolidated its position as
Africa’s premier financial institution. With the exception of the
African Development Fund (ADF), whose deficit widened, the Group
recorded higher income than in 2016.

Financial

awn
ridged

Financial. =i

‘ ASS

2,209,200

 

Trading room

While the African Development Bank (ADB) and Nigeria Trust Fund
(NTF) realized higher net income before distributions compared with
2016, the ADF deficit increased (Table 5.1). The Bank’s income has
improved in recent years as a result of the increase in loan pricing,
the increase in lending activities, and record levels of disbursements
in 2016 and 2017. Apart from transfers to reserves, 90 percent of the
allocable income of the Bank, has gone to support for low-income
ADF countries. Detailed information and analysis on the financial
results of the Bank Group are presented in a separate companion
2017 Financial Report.

Annual Report 2017

405 | Financial Highlights and Abridged Financial Statements

African Development Bank

In 2017, the Bank earned a higher income of UA 258.43 million
before distributions approved by the Board of Governors, compared
with UA 120.07 million in 2016. The increase is primarily due to the
combined effect of higher interest income realized on increased
volumes of loans and investments, reduced impairment on nonsovereign loans, and a favourable valuation of borrowings and
derivatives.

A summary of selected financial metrics for the Bank for the four
years ended from 2014 to 31 December 2017 is shown in Table 5.2.

The net interest margin fell in 2017, primarily due to the replacement
of maturing high-yielding investments held at amortized cost with

lower-yielding investments and an increase in the absolute value
of the trading portfolio. Interest income from loans increased by
24.40 percent due to a higher average volume of outstanding loans
resulting from increased disbursements. The treasury portfolio
continued to perform above its benchmarks. Overall, net interest
income increased by 1.93 percent, driven mainly by the higher level
of average gross interest earning assets during the year.

The Bank’s share of the total Bank Group’s administrative expenses,
included in Table 5.1 in Other Expenses, amounted to UA 147.77
million in 2017, up from UA 130.06 million in the previous year.

The Bank’s reserves, plus accumulated loan loss provisions on
outstanding loan principal and charges, increased to UA 3.42 billion
at the end of 2017, up from UA 3.26 billion at the end of 2016, an
increase of 4.91 percent.

Table 5.1 Abridged 2016 and 2017 financial results of the Bank Group (UA millions)

ADB ADF NTF

2017 2016 2017 2016 2017 2016
Income from loans and investments 668.05 563.47 147.59 178.58 2.75 2.35
Borrowing expenses and derivatives (226.77) (244.84) - - - Impairment charge on loans and investments (16.99) (67.65) - - - Translation gains/(losses) and other income 2.16 10.51 (8.96) (4.17) - Net operational income 426.46 261.49 138.63 174.41 2.75 2.35
Other expenses (168.03) (141.42) (257.41) (241.67) (0.56) (0.45)
eons enpunone epprovediby the 258.43 120.07 (118.78) (67.26) 248 1.90
Dieu pone approved oy ue (82.00) (95.00) : : (0.19) (0.14)
Net income/(loss) for the year 176.43 25.07 (118.78) (67.26) 1.99 1.76

Table 5.2 Selected financial metrics for ADB, 2014 - 2017 (UA millions)

 

2017 2016 2015 2014
Net operational income 426.46 261.49 229.65 282.20
Income before distribution approved by Board of Governors 258.43, 120.07 93.16 151.69
Net income/(loss) for the year 176.43 25.07 (30.84) 31.70

41 Annual Report 2017Distributions approved by the Board of
Governors

In 2017, the Board of Governors approved distributions of UA
82 million from 2016 income to various development initiatives,
compared with UA 95 million distributed in 2016. The beneficiaries
of these distributions are listed in note N to the financial statements
in the 2017 Financial Report. In accordance with the Bank’s
accounting policies, such distributions are reported as expenses in
the year of approval. The Board of Directors agreed to recommend
to the Board of Governors, at its forthcoming Annual Meeting in May
2018, distributions of UA 78 million from 2017 net income to various
development initiatives. If approved by the Board of Governors, such
distributions, and any others that may be approved by the Board of
Governors in 2018, will be reported as expenses in the 2018 financial
statements, in line with the prevailing accounting practice.

Control of administrative expenses

For the year ending 31 December 2017, the Bank Group’s general
administrative expenses, excluding charges for depreciation and
amortization, increased by 10.09 percent to UA 376.81 million.
This increase was primarily due to higher operational expenses
arising from staff end-of-service benefits and the impact of actuarial
valuation deficits on the benefit plans. For 2018, the Bank Group's
administrative expenditure is budgeted at UA 376.86 million,
reflecting its commitment to strategic cost containment and to the
achievement of sustainable returns. To maximize the resources
for development financing and technical assistance to its member
countries, the Bank continues to focus on a high level of budgetary
discipline, effective cost controls, and proactive cost-recovery
programs in managing its administrative and capital expenses.

Risk management policies and
processes

The Bank has strengthened the monitoring of its current loan portfolio
and continues to undertake the necessary portfolio restructuring
measures, including canceling longstanding loans “signed but not
disbursed” to free up capital for new lending. Meanwhile, efforts
to fully implement the operational risk management framework, as
approved by the Board of Directors, are ongoing. Also in progress
is the implementation of an integrated workflow-driven software
platform expected to allow all stakeholders involved in credit risk
assessment to streamline their work and enhance efficiency.

As part of its balance sheet optimization strategy, the Bank
entered Exposure Exchange Agreements (EEAs) with other MDBs
in 2015. This initiative aims to reduce sovereign-concentration
risk and thus to increase lending headroom. The EEAs contracted

Financial Highlights and Abridged Financial Statements | 5

have final maturities in 2030 with linear annual reduction of the
notional amounts starting from 2025. On 31 December 2017 the
total outstanding notional credit protection purchased or sold on
the relevant underlying single reference entities, which remained
unchanged from the previous year, was USD 4.47 billion (UA 3.14
billion). No default events have occurred on any of the exposures
covered under these exposure exchanges, and the Bank continues
to expect its sovereign and sovereign-guaranteed exposures to be
serviced in accordance with loan agreements. The counterparty
credit exposure that can arise from the purchase or sale of protection
under the EEA is limited given the AAA credit ratings of the Bank’s
counterparties.

The risks to the Bank’s balance sheet are actively monitored on a
risk dashboard that is regularly updated to reflect the evolving risk
profile of the Bank’s operations. The policies and practices deployed
by the Bank to manage these risks are described in more detail in
note D to the financial statements in the 2017 Financial Report.

Bank rating

The four leading international rating agencies - Standard & Poor's,
Fitch, Moody's, and Japan Credit Rating Agency - reaffirmed their
ratings of the Bank’s senior debt (AAA/Aaa) and subordinated
debt (AA+/Aa1) with a stable outlook. The high ratings underline
the Bank’s strong financial position (as reflected in its capital and
liquidity) and very strong business profile.

African Development Fund

The financial objective of the Fund is to protect its commitment
capacity. The Fund reported a deficit of UA 118.78 million in 2017,
up from the UA 67.26 million recorded in 2016, largely due to a
decrease in investment income.

While loan income increased from UA 96.57 million in 2016 to
UA 103.52 million in 2017 due to higher lending during the year,
investment income decreased by 46 percent from UA 82.01 million
in 2016 to UA 44.07 million in 2017. It is noteworthy that the 2016
investment income included a UA 31.66 million exceptional gain
following the one-off sale of assets to accommodate the introduction
of the renminbi in the Fund’s investment portfolio. A decrease in
ADF’s average liquidity also contributed to the decline in investment
income.

Persistent deficits over recent years are due mainly to structural
changes to the Fund, including the cancellation of loans to certain
beneficiaries under the Multilateral Debt Relief Initiative (MDRI),
described in note F to the special purpose financial statements in
the 2017 Financial Report. The increased grant component in the
recent ADF resource allocations, and the impact of the prevailing

Annual Report 2017

425 | Financial Highlights and Abridged Financial Statements

43

low interest rates on investments of subscriptions was encashed
early, left the Fund with a negative income gap. Although these
structural changes affected the reported income in the Fund’s
financial statements, their impact did not adversely affect the
commitment capacity or the financial sustainability of the Fund
because it is expected to be compensated through additional donor
subscriptions, payable over the life of the canceled loans.

The Fund’s share of the total administrative expenses of the Bank
Group increased by 7.92 percent, due to the general increase in
operational expenses. However, the Fund’s cost-sharing ratio of
these expenses fell marginally to 60.95 percent in 2017, from 62.14
percent in 2016.

The Fund continues to cancel qualifying debts under the MDRI for
countries that reach the Heavily Indebted Poor Countries (HIPC)
completion point. No new country reached the completion point
in 2017. A summary of the cumulative loan cancellations under
the MDRI and HIPC is included in note F to the special purpose
financial statements in the 2017 Financial Report.

Nigeria Trust Fund

The NTF’s income before distributions approved by the Board of
Governors increased from UA 1.90 million in 2016 to UA 2.18 million
in 2017, mainly due to an increase in investment income.

The NTF’s share of administrative expenses of the Bank Group
increased from UA 0.47 million in 2016 to UA 0.55 million in 2017. The
NTF’s reserves, net of cumulative currency translation adjustments,
decreased by 16.05 percent from UA 48.21 million at the end of
2016 to UA 40.47 million at 31 December 2017.

Selected financial metrics

A summary of selected financial metrics of the Bank Group entities
(ADB, ADF, and NTF) for the four years ended 31 December is shown
in Table 5.3.

Table 5.3 Selected financial metrics of the Bank Group, 2014 - 2017 (UA millions)

2017

 

African Development Bank

Assets 32,575.74
Net income/(loss) 176.43
Comprehensive income/(loss) 235.22
Cash and cash equivalents 1,719.78

African Development Fund

Net development resources 5,219.81
Deficit (118.78)
Cash and cash equivalents 564.19

Nigeria Trust Fund

Assets 169.36
Net income 1.99
Total comprehensive income 1.99
Cash and cash equivalents 12.20

2016 2015 2014
29,727.08 25,346.74 22,950.83
25.07 (30.84) 31.69
(174.41) 105.93 (41.56)
2,035.87 2,403.88 650.68
5,457.84 5,931.89 6,151.41
(67.26) (83.25) (125.35)
874.80 475.59 636.82
192.43 170.52 169.60
1.76 1.24 1.33
1.76 1.24 1.33
21.57 22.54 13.63

Note: The full audited financial statements, together with the related audit opinion, are available separately in the 2017 Financial Report.

Annual Report 2017Conclusion

The Bank’s financial strength was reinforced in 2017 as it maintained
its AAA rating, with a stable outlook, by all four global rating
agencies. The Bank’s AAA stable outlook as assessed rating is
underpinned by sound financial and risk management policies,
excellent liquidity, and strong shareholder support.

Total Bank Group approvals (excluding all Special Funds) reached
UA 5.46 billion in 2017. With the inclusion of approvals from the
Transition Support Facility (TSF), Private Sector Credit Enhancement
Facility (PSF), and other Special Funds, the total approvals were UA
6.20 billion.

The Bank raised more resources for Africa. In 2017, it mobilized
USD 9.73 billion from the capital markets for African countries,
including USD 300 million from the Enhanced Private Sector Facility
for Africa. The Bank launched its largest bond transaction, with a
USD 2.5 billion three-year global benchmark, followed by its largest
ever five-year global benchmark for USD 2 billion. Anew department
was established in 2017 to increase syndication and co-financing
activities, optimize the Bank’s balance sheet, and accelerate the
use of less capital-intensive instruments. These measures will help
grow the Bank’s franchise value and position the Bank competitively
to serve its clients.

The Bank Group entities achieved the highest annual disbursement
in its history, at UA 5.48 billion.

In 2017, as in the previous year, the Bank Group consolidated its
strong financial position despite the difficult operating environment
and prevailing low interest rates. For the Bank, the strong
performance in 2017 has enabled the highest ever addition to
reserves in the amount of UA 133 million. The strong financial
position of the Bank enables it to distribute income to support
urgent development needs especially in lower income countries. In
2017, the Bank distributed UA 82 million in support of such
activities; and UA 78 million will be distributed in 2018 from the
2017 net income.

In 2018, the risk and financial management policies and practices
will continue to be applied in a manner that protects the long-term

Financial Highlights and Abridged Financial Statements | 5

sustainability of the Bank, as the Bank Group pursues the
accelerated delivery of development resources to its Regional
Member Countries.

The Bank continued to implement its High 5 agenda and to deliver
strong results on the ground. Through its sovereign and nonsovereign windows, the Bank is financing projects and programs
that create jobs, support small and medium enterprises, and deliver
inclusive growth.

Highlights for 2017 include:

+ Light Up and Power Africa reached 4.4 million people with
access to electricity. The Bank is leading Africa’s transition to
inclusive and green growth. The share of renewable energy in the
Bank’s energy generation portfolio increased from 14 percent in
2015 to 74 percent in 2016, and in 2017 the Bank achieved a
record 100 percent of its new lending on energy was all in
renewables. These investments will generate an additional 1,400
MW of power and connect 3.8 million people to electricity.

+ Feed Africa brought 8.5 million Africans access to improved
agricultural technologies.

+ Integrate Africa provided 14 million Africans with improved
access to transport.

+ Industrialize Africa provided 210,000 small businesses with
access to financial services.

+ Improve the Quality of Life for the People of Africa provided 8.3
million Africans with improved access to water and sanitation.

The Bank continued to strengthen, customize, and align its
knowledge products to its High 5 priority areas while providing
more policy-relevant analytical and advisory support and capacity
building to Regional Member Countries (RMCs). Looking ahead to
2018, the Bank will continue reforming, innovating, leading, and
delivering more for Africa than ever before. New policies and
strategies, innovative financial instruments, decentralized
operations, and an enhanced results culture will transform the way
the Bank operates. The Bank has become more responsive to its
clients and is able to deliver improved development results.

Annual Report 2017

4aACCF
ADB
ADF
ADOA

AEC

AERC
AGTF
BDEV

cf
ts
a

Africa Climate Change Fund
African Development Bank
African Development Fund

Additionality and Development
Outcomes Assessment

African Economic Conference
African Economic Research Consortium
Africa Growing Together Fund

Independent Development Evaluation

COMESA Common Market for Eastern

CSOs
csp
DBDM
DFI
EBRD

ECAD

45

and Southern Africa

Civil Society Organizations

Country Strategy Paper

Development and Business Delivery Model
Development Finance Institution

European Bank for Reconstruction
and Development

African Development Institute

Annual Report 2017

ECAM

EEAs
ESw
GCF
HIPC
IATI

IFF
JfYA
KOAFEC
MDRI
MENA
MSMEs
NEPAD
NORAD

NSOs

External Communications and the
Preparation of the Annual Meetings
Exposure Exchange Agreements
Economic and Sector Work

Green Climate Fund

Heavily Indebted Poor Country
International Aid Transparency Initiative
Illicit Financial Flows

Jobs for Youth in Africa

Korea-Africa Economic Cooperation
Multilateral Debt Relief Initiative

Middle East and North Africa

Micro, small, and medium enterprises
New Partnership for Africa’s Development

Norwegian Agency for Development
Cooperstion

Non-sovereign operations

 

NTF
PAGODA

PBO
RePEc
RMC
RMF
SADC
SDGs
SIF
SME
TAAT

TER
TSF

Nigerian Trust Fund

Pillar Assessed Grants or
Delegated Agreements

Program-based operation

Research Papers in Economics

Regional Member Countries

Results Measurement Framework
Southern African Development Community
Sustainable Development Goals

Somalia Infrastructure Fund

Small and medium enterprises

Technologies for African
Agricultural Transformation

Dakar-Diamniadio-AIBD Regional Express Train

Transition Support Facility2008 2009 2010 2011
Operations
Bank Group approvals”
Number 133 181 139 184
Amount 3,528.73 8,064.49 4,099.75 5,720.29
of which HIPC 159.87 372.56 202.95 1,350.85
Disbursements” 1,860.91 4,083.59 2,510.70 3,174.11
ADB approvals”
Number 58 84 59 59
Amount 1,807.01 5,604.07 2,581.13 3,689.43
of which HIPC 113.75 112.77 144.14 1,178.04
Disbursements® 727.53 2,352.29 1,339.85 1,868.79
ADF approvals”
Number 59 65 58 56
Amount 1,629.77 2,062.14 1,345.99 1,647.67
of which HIPC 17.95 259.09 29.99 171.93
Disbursements 1,124.92 1,726.43 1,165.84 1,296.65
NTF approvals
Number 2 3 2 3
Amount 28.16 5.70 29.53 10.88
of which HIPC 28.16 0.70 28.83 0.88
Disbursements 8.45 4.87 5.02 8.67
PSF approvals
Number - - - Amount - - - TSF approvals
Number 3 12 7 31
Amount 35.57 364.83 110.73 184.19
Special funds approvals®
Number W 7 13 35
Amount 28.21 27.76 32.38 188.12

Resources and finance (at year end)

ADB
Authorized capital 21,870.00 22,120.00 67,687.46 66,054.50
Subscribed capital® 21,765.14 21,817.58 23,924.62 37,322.00
Paid-up portion® 2,356.01 2,359.32 2,375.63 3,289.06
Callable portion 19,409.14 19,458.25 21,548.99 34,032.95
Outstanding debt 6,707.28 10,580.64 11,980.57 12,902.96

Cumulative exchange
Adjustment on

subscriptions (161) (162) (163) (161)
Reserves 2,475.47 2,552.96 2,627.28 2,536.18
Gross income! 564.45 518.88 519.32 489.18
Net income 304.66 231.16 213.66 164.51

ADF
Subscriptions 16,566.02 17,854.02 19,030.32 20,428.32
Other resources 280.27 305.27 355.27 390.27

NTF
Resources (gross) 286.78 156.73 160.86 162.74

Note: Percentages in the charts and tables of the Report may not add up to 100 due to rounding.

a9

‘The cumulative figures go back to the initial operations of the three institutions (1967 for
ADB, 1974 for ADF, and 1976 for NTF).

Approvals include loans and grants, private and public equity investments, emergency operations, HIPC debt relief, loan reallocations, guarantee, and Post Conflict Country Facility
and exclude PSF and TSF.

From 2013, disbursements include Equity Participation.

‘These are approvals on the operations of the African Water Fund and Rural Water Supply
and Sanitation Initiative, Global Environment Facility, the Global Agriculture and Food
Security Program, the Climate Investment Fund, the Congo Basin Forest Fund, the Fund

for African Private Sector Assistance, the Zimbabwe Multi-Donor Trust Fund, Migration and
Development Trust Fund, Sustainable Energy Fund for Africa, Africa Climate Change Fund,
Migration & Development Initiative Fund, MicroFinance Capacity Building Fund, MENA Trust
Fund, Nigeria Technical Cooperation Fund, and OPEC.

Subscribed capital and paid up capital for 2005 were restated to exclude shares to be
issued upon payment of future installments.

2012

199
4,253.75
248.00
3,379.53

48
2,080.46
134.58
2,208.17

65
1,773.08
112.21
1,169.60

14.10
1.20
1.76

33
117.09

50
269.03

66,975.05
65,215.04

4,962.68
60,252.36
13,278.80

(167)
2,667.44
553.64
198.62

21,622.28
425.27

164.62

2013

317
4,385.78
22.32
3,193.00

65
1,831.70
9.64
1,489.83

121
2,064.87
12.68
1,702.21

31.17

0.96

35
204.68

91
253.36

66,975.05
65,210.13

4,962.34
60,247.80
12,947.44

(173)
2,856.88
479.64
180.33

23,084.05
509.96

165.77

2014

232
5,049.92

3,202.31

79
3,201.30

1,983.89

77
1,338.23

1,215.30

2
11.49

3.13

35
254.68

39
244.22

66,975.05
65,133.22

4,864.52
60,268.70
14,375.95

(174)
2,815.32
484.73
151.69

24,921.04
551.96

168.28

2015

241
6,334.69
46.96
3,084.00

a
4,518.23

1,678.17

70
1,307.36
46.96
1,398.36

12.50

7.47

28
207.75

42
288.85

66,975.05
65,482.51

4,884.41
60,598.10
16,449.27

(169)
2,921.25
455.77
93.16

26,122.31
602.96

169.88

2016 2017

305 249
8,035.34 6,195.95

4,720.92 5,425.83

114 87
6,335.32 4,502.18

3,262.52 3,715.42

94 76
1,267.91 959.48

1,447.41 1,703.00

3 ez
18.46 10.98 7.41
8 10
90.78 150.70
31 35

162.55 302.78

55 a1
160.32 280.81

66,975.05 66,975.05
65,486.17 65,497.96

4,897.39 4,980.43
60,588.78 60,517.53
20,644.15 23,175.69

(161) (158)
2,746.84 2,982.05
536.02 665.76
120.07 258.43

27,226.94 28,601.22
645.96 680.96

176.79 169.05

Appendices

CUMULATIVE TOTAL?

5,528
102,204.43
6,158.28

1,810
62,166.68
3,158.22

2,924
35,555.67
2,936.91

100
469.93
63.15

18

241.47

250
1,944.85

426
1,825.83

Since 2013, dividends from equity participations have been reclassified and included in gross
income. Since 2015, the gross income is net of interest on loan swaps.
Net income is before distributions approved by the Board of Governors.

The conversion rates are those for 31 December of each year. The conversion rates of the ADB, ADF,
and NTF Unit of Account (UA) to the US Dollar for various years are as follows:

2008
2009
2010
2011
2012

1 UA = 1.54027 US dollars
1 UA = 1.56769 US dollars
1 UA = 1.54003 US dollars
1 UA = 1.53527 US dollars
1 UA = 1.53692 US dollars

2013
2014
2018
2016
2017

.54000 US dollars
44881 US dollars
.38573 US dollars
.34433 US dollars
.42413 US dollars

 

1
1
1
1
1

ececc]e

 

Annual Report 2017

46Appendices

47

Sector

Light Up and Power
Africa

Energy supply

Finance

Feed Africa

Agriculture and
rural development

Finance

Industrialize Africa

Industry, mining,
and quarrying

Finance

Integrate Africa
Multinational
Communication
Transport
Finance
Improve the Quality
of Life for the
People of Africa

Education

Health
Gender equity,
population and
nutrition

Poverty alleviation
and micro-finance

Other Social

Water supply
and sanitation

Communication
(national)

Transport (national)
Multisector

Urban development
Environment

Finance

Total approvals

Ordinary Resources
ADB ADF*

Number Amount Number Amount

"1 685.30 15 256.98
9 640.96 15 256.98
2 44.34 - 
18 549.69 14 200.32

16 530.14 14 200.32
2 19.55 - 
12 802.54 2 6.00
3 148.10 - 9 654.44 2 6.00
6 208.93 12 200.50
4 151.64 10 187.12
2 57.29 2 13.38

40 2,255.72 33 295.68
B. 112.16 1 60.00
2 1.43 2 a
4 2.90 - 1 101.08 1 1.36
3 157.60 6 74.44
1 59.29 1 13.22
7 634.53 5 42.57

14 980.77 18 102.60
6 205.96 1 1.50

87 4,502.18 76 959.48

Excludes PSF and TSF

Annual Report 2017

NTF PSF

Number Amount Number

Amount

37.68

37.68

15.87

15.87

29.14

1.40

150.70

Special Resources

TSF
Number Amount
4 85.61
4 85.61
8 47.53
8 47.53
23 169.64
3 30.37
1 4.08
19 135.19
35 302.78

Number

22

22

a4

SF

Amount

164.57

164.57

36.14

36.14

2.38

2.38

77.72

75.56

280.81

Bank Group
Number Amount
541,230.14
50 1,148.12
4 82.02
50 849.56
47 814.13
3 35.42
19 855.44
3 148.10
16 707.34
19 431.50
15 360.83
4 70.67
107 2,829.31
3 172.16

2 1.43

4 2.90

2 102.44
18 337.97
2 72.50
14 710.32
54 1,220.72
8 208.86
249 6,195.95Appendices

Ordinary Resources Special Resources
Sector ADB ADF* NTF PSF TSF SF Bank Group
Number Amount Number Amount Number Amount Number Amount Number Amount Number Amount Number Amount
Agriculture and rural 16 530.14 14 200.32 - - - - 8 47.53 9 36.14 47 814.13
development
Social 9 217.57 2 61.36 - - - - - - - - 1" 278.93
Education 2 112.16 1 60.00 - - - - - - - - 3 172.16
Heath 2 1.43 e = - * : - - - - - 2 1.43
Other 5 103.98 1 1.36 - - - - - - - - 6 105.34
Infrastructure 24 1,644.01 37 «874.32 - - 2 51.22 8 120.06 28 © 240.14 99 2,629.74
Water supply and 3 187.60 6 74.44 - - - - 3 30.37 6 75.56 18 337.97
sanitation
Energy supply 9 640.96 15 256.98 - - - - 4 85.61 22 164.57 50 1,148.12
Communication 1 59.29 1 13.22 - - - - - - 2 72.50
Transport 11 786.17 15 229.68 - - 2 51.22 1 4.08 - - 29 1,071.15
Finance 21 981.58 5 20.88 - - 8 99.48 1 2.38 35 1,104.31
Multisector 14 980.77 18 102.60 - - - - 19 135.19 3 2.16 54 1,220.72
Industry, mining, and 3 148.10 - - - - - - - - - - 3 148.10
quarrying
Urban development - - - - - - - - - - - - - Environment - - - - - - - - - - - - - Total approvals 87 4,502.18 76 959.48 - - 10 150.70 35 302.78 41 280.81 249 6,195.95

Excludes PSF and TSF.

Annual Report 2017 48Appendices

Financing Instrument

Project Lending
Public and publicly guaranteed :
Project loans

Sector investment and
rehabilitation

Lines of credit
Private non-publicly guaranteed :
Project loans
Lines of credit
Soft commodity finance facility

Policy-Based Lending
Sector adjustment
Structural adjustment
Budget support.

Grants
Technical assistance
Project cycle activities
Institutional support
of which private sector
Middle income countries grant
Project grants
Structural adjustment grant
Budget support grant
African food crisis response grant
Special relief fund
Emergency assistance
Emergency post-conflict
Special debt relief grant

 

Institutional Capacity Buil
Loans

ing
Project Preparation Facility

Debt and Debt Service Reduction
SFM debt alleviation
HIPC debt relief
Post - conflict country framework

Equity Participation
Public equity
Private equity

Guarantee
Public guarantees
Private guarantees

Loan Reallocations
Special Funds

Total approvals

a. Excludes PSF and TSF.

49 Annual Report 2017

Number

ADB

Amount
54 3,371.05
25 1,902.56
25 1,902.56
29° 1,468.49
13 709.79
13 599.35
3 159.35
6 880.19
6 880.19
7 12.88
5 4.23
5 4.23
12 8.66
12 8.66
7 69.96
7 69.96
3 168.08
3 168.08
87 4,502.18

Ordinary Resources

Amount

584.00
584.00
584.00

62.85,

62.85
263.37
13.81
0.10
13.71

247.23

2.32

14.13
14.13

959.48

Special Resources

Amount Number

aag

Amount

59.39
59.39
59.39

22.07
22.07

302.78

Number

Bank Group
Amount
91 4,014.43
62 2,545.95
62 2,545.95
29 1,468.49
13 709.79
13 599.35
3 159.35
12 960.07
12 960.07
76 469.69
13 18.04
1 0.10
12 29.01
5 4.23
41 360.61
5 67.09
12 8.66
12 8.66
7 46.00
7 69.96
7 69.96
15 354.98
2 36.20
13 318.78
a 280.81
249 6,195.95Region/Country

CENTRAL AFRICA
Cameroon

Central African Republic

Chad

Congo

Congo, Democratic Republic of
Equatorial Guinea

Gabon

‘S40 Tomé & Principe
Multinational

Central Africa approvals

EAST AFRICA
Burundi

Comoros

Djibouti

Eritrea

Ethiopia

Kenya

Rwanda

Seychelles

Somalia

‘South Sudan

Sudan

Tanzania

Uganda

Multinational

East Africa approvals

NORTH AFRICA
Algeria

Egypt

Libya

Mauritania

Morocco

Tunisia

Multinational

North Africa approvals

SOUTHERN AFRICA
Angola

Botswana

Lesotho

Madagascar

Malawi

Mauritius

Mozambique

Namibia

South Africa

Swaziland

Zambia

Zimbabwe

Multinational

Southern Africa approvals

WEST AFRICA
Benin

Burkina Faso

Cabo Verde

Céte d'ivoire

Gambia

Ghana

Guinea

Guinea-Bissau

Liberia

Mali

Niger

Nigeria

Senegal

Sierra Leone

Togo

Multinational

West Africa approvals
Multinational

Multiregional
Total approvals

2012

47.3
38.1
24.0
10.6
69.0

145.4
0.5

335.0

17.8
26
8.4

166.0
28.8

48
4.3
154.6
67.6

454.9

0.8

94
901.2
354.6

1,265.7

78.0
0.5
273.1
0.5
62.5
16.1

485.6

31.2

1.2
238.6
6.9
168.8
113.6
0.7
37.8
0.7
54.6
63.9
48
23.5
ae

749.2
963.3

4,253.8

2013

45.5

64
3.2
204.9

267.7

17.6
35.9
5.6

85.7
275.5
54.6
14.3
3.5
27.4
25.6
42.1
73.8

661.7

3.7
25
17
206.1
28.6

242.6

22.9

20.1
81.7
59.0
99.0
26.5
199.4

158.0
444

710.7

46.4
86.9
67.1
63.4
18.3
14.2
22.4

45.4
136.0
12.6
530.9
1.41
28.6
2.3

1,185.6
1,317.5

4,385.8

2014

143.8
15.6
14.9

75
187.1
0.8
1.6

371.3

41.8
4.0

66.6
208.4
99.4
2.2
29
0.7

98.7
127.5

08
46

45
313.5
67.8

391.4

662.1

65.9
23.1
76.8
28.7

264.8
45.8
53.5

1,220.7

26.4
32.2
12.7
30.6

6.3
58.6
13.1

0.6
13.7
64.6

1,009.9
52.7
7.0

8.6

1,337.0
1,077.4

5,049.9

2015

447.9
27.6
60.9
15.1
40.7

14.0

606.2

8.0
8.2
13.5
182.3
201.3
20.2
23.8
18
2.0
58.9
549.2
89.4

1,158.7

29
512.8

267.7
337.9

1,121.2

385.7

34.4
35.1
12
18.6
263.1
274.5
09
264.5
40.4

1,318.3

34.6
41.0
13.2
169.8
2.0
172.1

24.0
0.3
15.0
20.0
44
145.8
29.5
15.1

686.6
1,443.6

6,334.7

2016

323.0
3.9
32.1
41.9
138.3

68.5
2.0

609.7

0.5

6.3
5.5
314.4
612.4
43.8

22.7
5.0
24.5
219.1
138.0

1,392.0

717.5
370.7

26.5
426.6
509.5

2,050.8

55.9
15.7
57.9
38.4

60.0
0.4
30.3
43.3
170.6
34.7

507.3

58.9
3.2
305.6
6.7
112.2
16.5
07
31.2
39.8
63.1
1,310.4
99.1
11.2
18.1

2,076.8
1,398.8

8.035,3

Appendices

2017

274.1
26.2
47.4

et

490.7
15
2776
1,124.6

25.8
15.2

5.3
140.4
253.0
198.6

62
35.4
15.0
20.3

152.4
236.6
1,104.3

144.9

43.2
372.8
362.9

47
928.5

71.4

6.2
3.8
1.5
70.7
1.4
372.8
123.1
19.6
25.4
14.3
171.7
910.7

39.1
46
17.4
270.3
48
93.0
73.1
5.5.
6.3
80.1

22.0
237.8
5.2
10.2
373.2
1,242.7

885.2
6,195.9

Annual Report 2017 50Appendices

RBBSSSISARERS Sear DoT AawNHH

25
26

SSSBLSREBRASBBY

42
43

45
46
47

49
50
51
52
53
54

BRRBBRSSAISARSRAS0CovoMaoNnH

51

Country
Algeria
Angola

Benin
Botswana
Burkina Faso
Burundi

Cabo Verde
Cameroon
Central African Republic
Chad
Comoros
Congo
Congo, Democratic Republic of
Cote d'ivoire
Djibouti

Egypt
Equatorial Guinea
Eritrea
Ethiopia
Gabon
Gambia, The
Ghana

Guinea
Guinea-Bissau
Kenya
Lesotho
Liberia

Libya
Madagascar
Malawi

Mali
Mauritania
Mauritius
Morocco
Mozambique
Namibia

Niger

Nigeria
Rwanda

So Tomé & Principe
Senegal
Seychelles
Sierra Leone
Somalia
South Africa
South Sudan
Sudan
Swaziland
Tanzania

Togo

Tunisia
Uganda
Zambia
Zimbabwe

Total regionals

Argentina
Austria

Belgium

Brazil

Canada

China

Denmark

Finland

France

Germany

India

Italy

Japan

Korea

Kuwait

Luxembourg
Netherlands

Norway

Portugal

Saudi Arabia

Spain

‘Sweden

Switzerland

Turkey

United Kingdom
United States of America
Total non-regionals

Grand Total

Annual Report 2017

Governor

Abderrahmane Raouya
Augusto De Sousa Archer Mangueira
Abdoulaye Bio Tchane

Ontefetse Kenneth Matambo
Hadizatou Rosine Coulibaly Sori
Domitien Ndihokubwayo

Olavo Correia

Louis Paul Motaze

Felix Moloua

Issa Doubragne

Djaffar Ahmed Said Hassani
Ingrid Olga Ghislaine Ebouka Babackas
Henri Yav Mulang

Niale Kaba

llyas Moussa Dawaleh

Tarek Amer

Miguel Obiang Engonga

Berhane Habtemariam

Abraham Tekeste

Regis Immongault

Amadou Sanneh

Kenneth Ofori-Atta

Kanny Diallo

Joao Alage Mamadu Fadia

Henry Kiplagat Rotich

Moeketsi Majoro

Boima Kamara

Osama S. Hamed Salah
Vonintsalama S. Andriambololona
Goodall Edward Gondwe
Boubou Cisse

Mohamed Ould Kembou

Pravind Kumar Jugnauth
Mohammed Boussaid

Adriano Afonso Maleiane

Carl Hermann Gustav Schlettwein
Kane Aichatou Boulama

Kemi Adeosun

Claver Gatete

Americo D’oliveira Ramos
Amadou Ba

Louis Rene Peter Larose
Momodu Lamina Kargbo
Adbirahman Beileh

Malusi Gigaba

Stephen Dhieu Dau Ayik
Mohamed Osman Suleiman Elrekabi
Martin Gobizandla Dlamini

Philip Isdor Mpango

Sani Yaya

Zied Ladhari

Matia Kasaija

Felix Mutati

Patrick Anthony Chinamasa

Luis Andres Caputo
Johann Georg Schelling
Alexander De Croo
Dyogo Henrique De Oliveira
Chrystia Freeland

Zhou Xiaochuan

Ulla Tornzes

Elina Kalkku

Odile Renaud-Basso
Thomas Silberhorn

Arun Jaitley

Pier Carlo Padoan

Taro Aso

Dong Yeon Kim

Nayef Falah Al-Hajrat
Pierre Gramegna

Sigrid Kaag

Marianne Hagen

Mario Centeno

Yousef Ibrahim Albassam
Luis De Guindos Jurado
Ulrika Modéer

Raymund Furrer

Osman Celik

Penny Mordaunt

c/o

Alternate
Miloud Boutabba

Pedro Luis Da Fonseca
Romuald Wadagni

Taufila Nyamadzabo
Ambroise Kafando

Céme Manirakiza

c/o

Charles Assamba Ongodo
Henri Marie Dondra
Abdoulaye Sabre Fadoul
Fouady Goulame

Calixte Nganongo
Deogratias Mutombo M. Nyembo
Adama Kone

Ahmed Osman Ali

Sahar Nasr

Valentin Ela Maye

Martha Woldegiorghis

Ato Admasu Nebebe
Mathias Otounga Ossibadjouo
Abdoulie Jallow

Ernest Kwamina Yedu Addison
Malado Kaba

Jose Biai

Kamau Thugge

Tom Mpeta

Alvin E. Attah

Ali Mohamed Salem
Herivelo Andriamanga

Ben Botolo

Konimba Sidibe

Cheikh El Kebir Ould Chbich
Dharam Dev Manraj
Faouzia Zaaboul

Rogerio Lucas Zandamela
Ericah B. Shafudah

Ahmat Jidoud

Mahmoud Isa-Dutse
Uzziel Ndagijimana

Helio Silva Vaz De Almeida
Papa Amadou Sarr
Caroline Abel

Edmund Koroma

Bashir Isse

Sfiso Nobert Buthelezi
Othom Rago Ajak

Magdi Hassan Yassin
Hlangusemphi Dlamini
Doto M. James

Kossi Assimaidou

Moufida Jaballah Srarfi
Keith Muhakanizi

Fredson Kango Yamba
Willard L. Manungo

Federico Sturzenegger
Edith Frauwallner

Johan Van Overtveldt
Jorge Saba Arbache Filho
Rob Stewart

Yi Gang

Martin B. Hermann

Satu Santala

Guillaume Chabert
Marianne Kothe
Shaktikanta Das
Gelsomina Vigliotti
Haruhiko Kuroda

Juyeol Lee

Hesham Al-Waqayan
Georges Heinen
Christiaan Rebergen
Aslak Brun

Ribeiro

Ahmed Mohammed Al-Ghannam
Irene Garrido

Magnus Lennartsson
Chantal Nicod

Ahmet Geng

Lord Bates

c/o

Total Votes

275,513
76,327
13,115
70,427
26,459
15,844

5,178
70,717
3,345
4,920
1,152

12,412
172,459
42,701
16,419
28,680
4,331
42,937
234,361
40,898
22,972
15,966
605,184

3,861,953

6,472
29,686
42,202
22,124

251,737
77,263
77,229
32,440

245,066

269,916
17,327

158,585

358,091
31,924
29,833
13,739
57,575
77,146
16,204
13,172
69,922

102,863
96,074
23,878

115,570

429,728

2,665,766

6,527,718

Voting Powers %
4.221
1.169
0.201
1.079
0.405
0.243
0.079
1.083
0.051
0.075
0.018
0.460
1.293
3.719
0.028
5.589
0.155
0.040
1.577
0.999
0.160
2.133
0.409
0.030
1.439
0.067
0.190
2.642
0.654
0.252
0.439
0.066
0.658
3.590
0.627
0.352
0.245
9.271
0.140
0.077
1.048
0.038
0.296
0.039
5.027
0.419
0.316
0.123
0.766
0.165
1.405
0.456
1.177
1.960

59.162

0.099
0.455
0.647
0.339
3.856
1.184
1.183
0.497
3.754
4.135
0.265
2.429
5.486
0.489
0.457
0.210
0.882
1.182
0.248
0.202
1.071
1.576
1.472
0.366
1.770
6.583

40.838

100.00020

21

22

23

24

25

26

27

28

29

Participant
African Development Bank
Angola

Argentina

Austria

Belgium

Brazil

Canada

China

Denmark

Finland

France

Germany

India

Italy

Japan

Korea

Kuwait

Luxembourg
Netherlands

Norway

Portugal

Saudi Arabia

Spain

Sweden

Switzerland

Turkey

United Arab Emirates
United Kingdom

United States of America

Total

Governor

Augusto De Sousa Archer Mangueira
Luis Andres Caputo
Johann Georg Schelling
Alexander De Croo
Dyogo Henrique De Oliveira
Chrystia Freeland

Zhou Xiaochuan

Ulla Tornzes

Elina Kalkku

Odile Renaud-Basso
Thomas Silberhorn

Arun Jaitley

Pier Carlo Padoan

Taro Aso

Dong Yeon Kim

Nayef Falah Al-Hajraf
Pierre Gramegna

Sigrid Kaag

Marianne Hagen

Mario Centeno

Yousef Ibrahim Albassam
Luis De Guindos Jurado
Ulrika Modéer

Raymund Furrer

Osman Gelik

c/o

Penny Mordaunt

c/o

Alternate

Pedro Luis Da Fonseca
Federico Sturzenegger
Edith Frauwallner

Johan Van Overtveldt
Jorge Saba Arbache Filho
Rob Stewart

Yi Gang

Martin B. Hermann

Satu Santala

Guillaume Chabert
Marianne Kothe
Shaktikanta Das
Gelsomina Vigliotti
Haruhiko Kuroda

Juyeol Lee

Hesham Al-Waqayan
Georges Heinen
Christiaan Rebergen
Aslak Brun

Maria Teresa Ribeiro
Ahmed Mohammed Al-Ghannam
Irene Garrido

Magnus Lennartsson
Chantal Nicod

Ahmet Geng

c/o

Lord Bates

c/o

Total Votes
1,000.000
0.346
0.066
19.110
20.167
4.874
67.533
22.546
24.658
20.366
102.771
104.525
3.503
55.355,
106.139
10.643
6.893
0.519
46.609
45.922
6.395
10.890
22.179
51.424
37.061
1.463,
0.296
102.668
105.078

2,000.000

Appendices

Voting Powers %

50.000
0.017
0.003
0.956
1.008
0.244
3.377
1.127
1.233,
1.018
5.139
5.226
0.175
2.768
5.307
0.532
0.345
0.026
2.330
2.296
0.320
0.545
1.109
2.571
1.853
0.073
0.015
5.133
5.254

100.000

Annual Report 2017

52Appendices

Board of Directors of the African Development Bank

Chairperson: Akinwumi Ayodeji ADESINA

Executive Directors
Names

Tariq AL-TUSHANI

Catherine CUDRE-MAUROUX
Moussa DOSSO

Steven DOWD

Domenico FANIZZA

Heinrich Mihe GAOMAB II
Karin ISAKSSON

Dominique LEBASTARD
Mmakgoshi E.P, LEKHETHE
Martine MABIALA

Soraya MELLALI

Abdelmajid MELLOUKI

René OBAM NLONG

Bright Erakpoweri OKOGU
Kwabena Boadu OKU-AFARI
Hiromi OZAWA

David STEVENSON
Nyamajeje Calleb WEGGORO
Samy ZAGHLOUL

Patrick Francis ZIMPITA

Country
Libya
‘Switzerland
Cote d'lvoire
USA

Italy
Namibia
‘Sweden
France
South Africa
Gabon
Algeria
Morocco
Cameroon
Nigeria
Ghana
Japan
Canada
Tanzania
Egypt

Malawi

Board of Directors of the African Development Fund

Chairperson: Akinwumi Ayodeji ADESINA

Executive Directors
Names

Tariq AL-TUSHANI*
Catherine CUDRE-MAUROUX
Moussa DOSSO *

Steven DOWD

Domenico FANIZZA
Heinrich Mihe GAOMAB II"
Karin ISAKSSON

Dominique LEBASTARD
Mmakgoshi E.P. LEKHETHE*
Martine MABIALA*

Soraya MELLALI*

Hiromi OZAWA

David STEVENSON

Nyamajeje Calleb WEGGORO*

* Representing ADB.

53 Annual Report 2017

Country
Libya
Switzerland
Céte d'ivoire
USA

Italy
Namibia
‘Sweden
France
South Africa
Gabon
Algeria
Japan
Canada

Tanzania

Alternate Executive Directors
Names

Hussein Abdi HALANE
(Vacant)

Bernardo ABAGA NDONG MAYIE
(Vacant)

Eric HILBERINK

Judith KATEERA

(Vacant)

Isabel RIANO

Bheki SIBONGAYE BHEMBE
Edith BELEM DAMIBA
Alfredo Paulo MENDES
Yandja YENTCHABRE
Donatien MALEYOMBO
Alvaro Joao SANTIAGO
Patrick Saidu CONTEH

Felix Martin SOTO

Thamer M. ALFAILAKAWI
(Vacant)

Ali MOHAMED ALI

Boniface Godirafetse MPHETLHE

Alternate Executive Directors
Names

Hussein Abdi HALANE

(Vacant)

Bernado ABAGA NDONG MAYIE
Matthew TURNER

Eric HILBERINK

Judith KATEERA

(Vacant)

Isabel RIANO

Bheki SIBONGAYE BHEMBE
Edith BELEM DAMIBA

Alfredo Paulo MENDES

Felix Martin SOTO

Thamer M. ALFAILAKAWI

(Vacant)

Country

Somalia

Equatorial Guinea

Netherlands

Zimbabwe

Spain
Swaziland

Burkina Faso

Guinea Bissau

Togo

Central African Republic
S40 Tome & Principe
Sierra Leone

Argentina

Kuwait

Djibouti

Botswana

Country

Somalia

Equatorial Guinea
USA
Netherlands

Zimbabwe

Spain
Swaziland
Burkina Faso
Guinea Bissau
Argentina

KuwaitSURNAME

PRESIDENCY, UNITS REPORTING TO THE PRESIDENT, AND UNITS REPORTING TO THE BOARDS.

President
Director of Cabinet/Chief of Staff
Secretary General

Group Chief Risk Officer

General Counsel and Director

Auditor General

Acting Director, Integrity & Anti-Corruption
Director, Compliance Review & Mediation
Evaluator General

SENIOR VICE PRESIDENCY

Senior Vice President

ADESINA

MULINDI

NMEHIELLE

TURNER

N’GARNIM-GANGA

OKONKWO.

SANKAREH

TOURE

NANGIA

BOAMAH

CHIEF ECONOMIST AND VICE PRESIDENT, ECONOMIC GOVERNANCE AND KNOWLEDGE MANAGEMENT

Chief Economist & Vice President, Economic Governance and Knowledge Management

CORPORATE SERVICES AND HUMAN RESOURCES
Vice President
FINANCE

Acting Chief Financial Officer and Vice President

REGIONAL DEVELOPMENT, INTEGRATION, AND BUSINESS DELIVERY

Vice President

Director General, Central Africa

Director General, East Africa

Director General, North Africa

Officer in Charge for Director General, Southern Africa
Director General, West Africa

POWER, ENERGY, CLIMATE, AND GREEN GROWTH

Vice President

AGRICULTURE, HUMAN AND SOCIAL DEVELOPMENT

Vice President

PRIVATE SECTOR, INFRASTRUCTURE, AND INDUSTRIALIZATION

Vice President

MONGA

KACOU

N’SELE

SHERIF

DORE

NEGATU

EL AZIZ

NGURE

LITSE

HOTT

BLANKE

GUISLAIN

Appendices

OTHER NAME

Akinwumi Ayodeji
Maria Mutola

Vincent Obisienunwo Orlu
Timothy

Helene

Chukwuma

Bubacarr

Sekou

Rakesh
Charles Owusu
Célestin

Albéric

Hassatou

Khaled

Ousmane

Gabriel

Mohamed
Josephine Waithira
Janvier Kpourou
Amadou

Jennifer Day

Pierre Albert L.

Annual Report 2017 54Appendices

 

usid
ae AINA NYId
3013s HLTVaH fniaidaneebsnhhd
AWNolLvdn990
Nv qWoIdaw isi
SNOLLNT0S LNAIID
a NV SNOILVOIGNAS
SA0INHaS TOVNONVT
Wald
LNSW3OVNVW,
siHo
ne “WIONVNId

AI aLVYOddOO
wuld
SdIHSHANLUVd
NV NOILWZMIgOW
gounosay

YHHO
ANaW3DVNVIN
s3ouNosay NVIWNH

Odld
SOHO

NERSUROOUL CNY, JOULNOD TVIONYNI

SHOIAUAS TVHINID

ld
AUNSVSHL

d AHO
ee eel)

MUR nae ence
Eo eee

4903
FO1440
NOLLVNIGHOOO
ANAW3OVNVIN
AWIONVNI4 OMEN
NV 3ONVNH3A0D

       
                                                                                                   

YNOa
WALNIO SAD"NOSIY
WYNN NVOIWAV

avoa
ALOLUSNI
ANaWdO1SAaG
NVOIusY

4so3
SOMSILVLS

3904
ANaWLuvd3aa
SOIINONOD3 ALLNNOD

yWoa
Houvasad

NV ONILSVO.

-3uO4 ‘AOTIOd
SOIINONOO3-OOVN

Ener]
ANAW3OVNVIN
EolFaeho

EP Aen)
ER EI
/ASIWONODA 43H

   

OSNS

ANAWLuvdaq

SONVITd WOO.

Nv sauvnoaivs

nos

YVNS 4INn

NOLLWINaSaudae SNOLLVHadO TvIdads
WNUALXa VISV

ONS

YONS SONVUNSSv ALITIVND.

siainsau ONY Lvluv1auo3s

NV LNaWa9VvNVIN 33.LUNWOO

SONVIHOSHAd SNOLLVH3dO
“XYAAITAG

gdNs

laNS 4g9ana anv

NOLLOadSNI ONINWVHDOUd
BAuvIONGld

dSNS

tans salorod
AvitvLadoas 9OWS WNOLLVHad0.
NV dANs HOL934I0 NV ADALVHLS

uid

ANaWdO7SAaq SaVvuL 5

NV TVIHLSNGNI

noid
ANaWd07SA4q Nvaun
8 FUNLONYLSVYANI

sid

ANaWdOTSAaG ~

YOLOSS TVIONWNI4

asid

1uoddns 4

YO.1O3S 3LVAIUd 8 OSN

Enel
Nee can rrr}
Ce Saree
BYTE SEE LY

SMHY dNad
NOLLV.LINYS SdIHSHINLUVd

NV waLVM AOUANA.

GHHY Nuad
ANaWdO7SA30 XONAIONa
STIDIS GNV HLNOA AUANa ONY
‘“WilldVO NVIWNH AOUANA 318VM3NSY
OHV usad

A13I90$ AID ONY
NaWOM ‘H3GNID

NolWwinoay aNY
XOITOd ‘SNOLLATOS

WIONVNI4 ADYANa
Y4HV
ANaWdO73A30 993d
‘Wun 8 SONVNIA HIMOHD N3aH9 B
TWwun.ino1w9v 3ONVHO ALVIS
IVHY asad
AWLSNGNI-OHDV ANWdO13A30

e aUNLINOIUDV SWALSAS HAMOd

eng PEE
ANaWdO73A30 Tete) T>)

Bert AT al)
'UNLINOIUDY dA

DEES OR ae h(a)
Pere D ERE rien

 

luau
491440 NOILVN
-IddOO9 NOLLVHD.
“ANI TVNOIDa4

sia
391440
NOLLVNIGHOOD
SALV1S NOLLISNVEL

 

onay
ANaW.uvdaa
AMANNOO VINSSIN

moay
4sam
Wu3N39 YOLOauIG

soqu
Hinos
Wwu3N39 YOLOauIG

Noy
HLYON
Wwu3Nad HOLOauIG

aoqu
isva
‘WwuaNa5 HO193uId

opay
Wu.1N39
‘Wu3Na9 HOLauId

PIX)
PSE Ce A]

eT anager OT)
STE ERE nets)
Bee en

 

 

     

9aSd
AuuNoaS

Had
301440 SOIHLA

30d
SNOLLV14Y TWNUALX3 ® NOILVOINNWOD:

divd
WNHO4 LNAWLS3ANI VOIH4V

280d
LANISVS 4O HOLOSHIG ? 44VLS 40 431HO

Ovid
NOLdNYHOO-ILNV
NV ALIHDSLNI 40 391440

19d
Wu3N3D HOLIGNY 3HL 40 391430

Frat res i a

CTT

HVINVOd “9
PIECE CE LEE)

SST]

ANE Ce aU Ta be
4N3qIsaud

LefeE))
$=) Tes Eoy- |= [Tele [oleh =) fol]

(oda)
SHONH3AOD 4O Guvoa

 

duod
NOILONN LNAWSOVNVW ¥SIY dnOHD

199d
SS9IAW3S 1V937 GNV 13SNNOO
WH3N3D SHI 40 391440

93Sd
AVIMVLAHOaS TVHANAD
WH3N3D-AYVLSHOSS SHL 40 391440

avsa
GUVOS S1Vaddv SNOILONVS:
SHL OL LVINVLaHOaS

wHog
NOILVIGAW GNV M3IA3Y JONVITdWOD.

ulva
WNNSIYL SALLVHLSININGY

agag
NOILVN1WA3 LNSWdO1SA30 LNSGNadaGNI

8049 uoNeUIpI00D,

 

Annual Report 2017

553

FSC

wonntsc.org
MIX

Paper from
responsible sources:

FSC™ C130488

 

Produced by Phoenix Design Aid AS/Denmark.
Printed on environmentally-friendly recycled paper with vegetable inks.
The printed matter is recyclable. ISO 14001/ISO 9001 and EMAS-approved.African Development Bank Group

Avenue Joseph Anoma Telephone: +225 20 20 40 10
01 BP 1387 Abidjan 01 Email: afdb@afdb.org
PETICAN DEVELOP MIEN BANICeE OUR, Cote d'Ivoire Website: www.afdb.org ISSN - 1737-8990